MARS AND VENUS ON A DATE A Guide for Navigating the 5 Stages of Dating to Create a Loving and Lasting Relationship JOHN GRAY, PH.D. This book is dedicated with deepest love and affection to my soul mate and wife, Bonnie Gray. Her radiant love continues to bring out the best in me. Contents Acknowledgments v Introduction vii 1 Mars and Venus on a Date 1 2 Finding the Right Person for You 9 3 Stage One: Attraction 34 4 Stage Two: Uncertainty 46 5 Stage Three: Exclusivity 65 6 Stage Four: Intimacy 90 7 Stage Five: Engagement 109 8 Making It Through the Five Stages 130 9 When the Clock Keeps Ticking and He’s Not Wearing a Watch 143 10 Men Are Like Blowtorches, Women Are Like Ovens 155 11 The Dynamics of Male and Female Desire 177 12 Men Pursue and Women Flirt 195 13 Acknowledge Men and Adore Women 202 14 Men Advertise and Women Share 214 15 Why Men Don’t Call 234 16 To Call or Not to Call 253 17 Men Love a Woman with a Smile 269 18 Women Love a Man with a Plan 292 19 Why Some Women Remain Single 305 20 Where to Find Your Soul Mate 320 21 101 Places to Meet Your Soul Mate 339 22 And They Lived Happily Ever After 355 About the Author Other Books by John Gray, Ph.D. Cover Copyright About the Publisher Acknowledgments I thank my wife, Bonnie, for once again sharing the journey of developing a new book. Parts of this book are directly inspired by the beginning of our relationship when we moved through the five stages of dating. I thank our three daughters, Shannon, Juliet, and Lauren, for their continued love and for their insight and brilliant feedback regarding many of the ideas in this book. A special thanks to Shannon for managing my office while I wrote this book. I thank the following family members and friends for their suggestions and valuable feedback to the ideas in this book: my mother, Virginia Gray; my brothers David, William, Robert, and Tom Gray; my sister, Virginia Gray; Robert and Karen Josephson; Susan and Michael Najarian; Renee Swisko; Ian and Elley Coren; Trudy Green; Martin and Josie Brown; Stan Sinberg; JoAnne LaMarca; Bart and Merril Berens; Reggie and Andrea Henkart; Rami El Batrawi; Sandra Weinstein; Bill Sy; Robert Beaudry; Jim and Anna Kennedy; Alan and Barbara Garber; and Clifford McGuire. I thank my agent, Patti Breitman, who has always been there at every step of this book, and I thank my international agent, Linda Michaels, for getting my books published around the world in over forty languages. I thank my editor, Diane Reverand, for her expert feedback, direction, and advice. I also thank Laura Leonard, Meaghan Dowling, David Flora, and the other incredible staff members at HarperCollins for their responsiveness to my needs. I could not ask for a better publisher. I thank the thousands of individuals and couples who have v vi / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. taken the time to share with me their insights and stories about being single and getting married. I thank Bonnie Solow, Robert Geller, and Daryn Roven for their assistance in producing the audio version of the book as well as Anne Gaudinier and the other staff members of HarperAudio. Introduction In past generations, the challenge of dating was different. Men and woman wanted a partner who could fulfill their basic needs for security and survival. Women looked for a strong man who would be a good provider; men searched for a nurturing woman to make a home. This courting dynamic, which has been in place for thousands of years, has suddenly changed. The new challenge of dating is to find a partner who not only will be supportive of our physical needs for survival and security but will support our emotional, mental, and spiritual needs as well. Today we want more from our relationships. Millions of men and women around the world are searching for a soul mate to experience lasting love, happiness, and romance. It is no longer enough to just find someone who is willing to marry us, we want partners who will love us more as they get to know us: we want to live happily ever after. To find and recognize partners who can fulfill our new needs for increased intimacy, good communication, and a great love life, we need to update our dating skills. Even if by good fortune you find a soul mate, without the right dating skills, you may not recognize him or her and get married. Eighteen years ago I was lucky enough to meet my soul mate but not skilled enough to make the relationship work. Bonnie and I dated for about a year and half. Although we loved each other very much, we didn’t get married. We broke up and went our separate ways. Four years later, we got back together. This time, because we dated differently, we eventually got married and have lived happily ever vii viii / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. after. By creating the right conditions for love to grow, our hearts opened, and we experienced a “soul love,” which “loves no matter what.” Discovering this unconditional love was the result of first creating the right conditions for love to grow. The first time we dated, we eventually knew we loved each other, but not enough to get married. We hadn’t yet felt the inner knowing that comes when the right conditions are satisfied. Without an updated approach to dating and relationships, we mistakenly concluded that we were not right for each other. The second time we dated, with a new understanding of how men and women are different, we were able to make our relationship work. As we grew together in love, our hearts opened. It was then that we were able to experience unconditional love for each other. We were soul mates. With this confidence I proposed marriage and she was able to accept. As a relationship counselor, I began sharing these new insights in counseling sessions and in my seminars. The results were dramatic and immediate. With this new understanding of how men and women think and feel differently, couples were able to improve communication and start getting what they wanted in their relationships. With renewed hope, they were able to find a deeper love in their hearts, heal and release the old resentments that may have closed their hearts, and rekindle the fires of romance and passion. Encouraged by these practical benefits in my own marriage and in the lives of my clients and seminar participants, I went on to write Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus, which has now sold more than ten million copies worldwide. A bestseller in more than forty languages, it has helped men and women around the world. INTRODUCTION / ix My office continues to receive more than three hundred calls and letters a day from people who have greatly benefited from the book and workshops. Besides the seminars that I personally teach each month, hundreds more Mars/Venus workshops are being given around the world by trained Mars/Venus facilitators. While this simple message has been helpful to so many couples, something was still missing for singles. Repeatedly, singles and dating couples have raised questions that were not directly answered or dealt with in Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus. In the process of finding practical answers to their questions over the last twelve years, the ideas, principles, and insights of Mars and Venus on a Date were formulated. This book is directly written for singles and dating couples who are interested in finding true and lasting love. Yet married couples will also find these principles and insights invaluable. Couples who are happily married can enjoy these ideas from the perspective of how they can add to the playfulness and romance in their relationship. No matter how good a relationship is, there is always room for growth. Even the best athletes still listen to their coaches for feedback and direction. Married couples who are experiencing difficulty in their marriage may discover what is missing in their relationship. Quite often couples skipped one or two stages of dating, and this affects their marriage adversely. By going back and going through the dating stages, many couples have reunited in love. Married couples who want to rekindle the romance of dating will benefit greatly from this practical guide. By reviewing the elements of a great date and putting them into practice, they can once again experience the passion and romance x / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. they felt in the beginning. By applying these simple insights, they will not only rekindle the fire of passion but learn how to keep it burning. The insights contained in Mars and Venus on a Date provide practical answers for the most common frustrations singles and dating couples experience. So often in our dating relationships we misunderstand and misinterpret our partner’s actions and reactions. With a correct understanding of our different ways of thinking and feeling, dating can be a source of joy, support, pleasure, and fulfillment, instead of a potential source of frustration, discouragement, worry, and embarrassment. With this new approach, the clouds of confusion associated with dating begin to clear away. As you read Mars and Venus on a Date and begin to experience the practical benefits of this shift in your dating approach, you will begin to discover that you already know a lot more than you thought. When a few missing pieces of the puzzle are found, suddenly everything can fall into place. Supported by this new approach, you will find the motivation, skill, and confidence necessary to find the right person for you while you enjoy the dating process. As you read though this book, the feelings that you have deep in your soul will be validated. This commonsense approach explains all of the most frustrating moments of dating and provides a clear plan for success. No book can tell you if a person is right for you, but a book can point you in the right direction and assist you in creating the right conditions so that you can know. When the principles and insights of Mars and Venus on a Date are put into practice, you will be prepared to meet and recognize your soul mate. This book has many suggestions that may not be right for INTRODUCTION / xi everyone. They are only suggestions. More than anything, this book will provide you with the information to assess a situation and to make the right decisions for you. As with my other books, there are many generalizations about men and women. This does not imply that all men are one way or all women are another way. It just means that many men and many women are that way. If you don’t perfectly fit the generalizations, it doesn’t mean something is wrong with you. When you meet someone whose behavior is different from yours, pull out your copy of Mars and Venus on a Date and use it as a guide to help make sense of that. Some people may be tempted to keep this book a secret. It definitely gives you an edge in knowing how to win over the opposite sex. But there is an even greater benefit in letting your date know that you have read it. If you both agree with many of the principles and values, you will be able to trust each other more right from the beginning. Discussing the ideas in Mars and Venus on a Date is a great way to get to know someone. Many dating couples have done this with Men Are from Mars. Reading Mars and Venus on a Date together during the various stages of dating will be even more useful. Sometimes it is difficult to discuss your wants and needs in a relationship. If this book fairly represents what you want, then it will assist you in communicating that to your partner. One of the greatest values of these insights is that they are expressed in language that is fair and supportive to both sexes. You can talk about the differences between Martians and Venusians without stepping on each other’s toes. If the values in this book resonate with who you are but they don’t resonate at all with a potential partner, it may be a clear sign that that person is not right for you. This is not always the case, though. Someone may just not like my style xii / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. of writing about dating, love, and relationships. Even if he or she is closed to reading a book about relationships, it doesn’t mean this is not the right person for you. The real test is going through the stages and seeing if you can get your needs met. Even if your partner doesn’t read Mars and Venus on a Date, you will gain the power to bring out the best in him or her when you read it. Then you will know if this is the right person for you. Women commonly make the mistake of quoting authorities to change a man’s behavior. Even if a man likes my books it is a good idea not to quote from them. Particularly with men, a request for change is best heard when it is personal and based on what you feel is right for you and not what a book says is right. For years women have asked me how to get a man to read Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus. The answer is the same with this book. A woman should ask a man what he thinks about some of the ideas that describe men. By asking him to read that section to answer her questions, she is not implying that he needs this, but that he is the expert about men and that his expertise could help her. Men love to be experts and they like to be helpful. As he reads the text, he may find that it is very interesting and helpful for him as well. After all, if he is from Mars, how is he supposed to understand Venusians? When Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus was first published, mainly women bought it. As more men heard about it, this trend changed dramatically. Now, after it has been a bestseller for four years, men buy it just as much as women. Men are also interested in having better relationships; they simply needed to discover that it was a “male friendly” book. Another approach to motivate a man to read this book is INTRODUCTION / xiii simply to ask him to do it as a favor to you. You should not imply that he needs it, but that you would love to discuss it with him and that it would help you. When approached the right way, many men are happy to read it. Some men just don’t read. If that’s the case, lend him a copy of the book on tape or watch the videos together for fun. These same suggestions could also apply when a man wants a woman to read the book. As you read Mars and Venus on a Date, lightbulbs will go on in your mind. Suddenly things that never made sense will start to make sense. This shift will help prepare you to find and meet your soul mate. When you can clearly understand your past mistakes in this new light, you will not have to repeat them. With this new understanding, you will be released from past patterns and be free to create the relationship of your dreams. You will quickly discover that you do have the ability to find the right person for you. It is a great pleasure for me to share Mars and Venus on a Date. It is the culmination of twelve successful years of assisting millions of people like you to improve communication with the opposite sex. By successfully understanding and meeting the challenges of each of the five stages of dating, you too will find true and lasting love. April 4, 1997 Mill Valley, California 1 Mars and Venus on a Date During my relationship seminars, single women often come up to me and describe in great detail what they thought was a wonderful date. The question that follows is almost always the same. Every one of these women says, “I can’t understand why it didn’t work out.” If everything went so well, each wonders, why didn’t he want to pursue the relationship? To most women, men are still a mystery. Their questions often reveal a complete misunderstanding and misinterpretation of men. Women ask: • How do I attract the right guy for me? • Why do men talk so much about themselves? • Why don’t men call back? • Why don’t men commit? • How do you get a man to open up? 1 2 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. • Why do I have to do everything to make this relationship work? • Everything is great, but my partner doesn’t want to get married and I do. What can I do? • Why do I keep getting involved with the same kind of guy? A woman’s questions tend to revolve around one issue: How do I secure a loving, lasting relationship? Women want to make sure they can get what they need in a relationship. Men, on the other hand, have different questions. Their questions focus on making sure they are successful in their relationships but also reveal a misunderstanding and misinterpretation of women. Men ask: • How do I know what a woman wants? • Why are women so indirect about things? • Why do we start arguing about the littlest things? • Why can’t a women just say what she means? • How do I know if she is the one? • Why does she always want to talk about the relationship? • Things are fine now, so why rock the boat and get married? • Why do women ask so many questions? Although men’s and women’s questions reflect different orientations toward dating, they do have two things in common: Men and women want their relationships to be loving, and they definitely don’t understand each other. We feel powerless at times to get what we want in our relationships. It might seem hopeless, but it is not. Once men and MARS AND VENUS ON A DATE / 3 women learn how they approach dating and relationships differently, then we have the necessary information and insight to begin finding the answers to our questions. Without a deeper understanding of our differences, it is inevitable that we will continue to misinterpret our dating partners and create unnecessary problems. HOW WE UNKNOWINGLY SABOTAGE RELATIONSHIPS When we misinterpret each other, it can cause us to sabotage our relationships unknowingly. A woman may mistakenly conclude her date is “just another man incapable of making a commitment” and give up. A man may think his date is another woman whose needs may smother him and take away his freedom. As a result, he loses interest. No matter how sincere you are, if your partner is misinterpreting your innocent and automatic reactions and responses, your attempts to create a relationship may be unsuccessful. It is not enough merely to be authentic in sharing yourself; to succeed in dating you need to consider how you will be interpreted as well. For this reason there are times when we cannot just “be ourselves.” Instead, we must hold back our initial gut reactions and measure our responses in ways that will communicate where we are coming from. It is not enough to merely be authentic in sharing yourself; to succeed in dating you need to consider how you will be interpreted as well. Making sense of the opposite sex frees us to make decisions and choices conducive to getting what we want, but in a way that works. To do this, it is essential that we have a 4 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. deeper understanding of the different worlds we come from. While I have explored many of these differences in my previous book Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus, there are many issues specifically relevant to being single that were not covered. A deeper understanding of single men and women can be immensely helpful in navigating through the five different stages of dating: attraction, uncertainty, commitment, intimacy, and engagement. With this new insight, it will be easier to interpret each other’s behavior correctly and act accordingly. THE FIVE STAGES OF DATING Stage One: Attraction In stage one of dating, we experience our initial attraction to a potential partner. The challenge in this first stage is to make sure you get the opportunity to express that attraction and get to know a potential partner. With a clear understanding of how men and women approach dating differently, you will be able to put your best foot forward. Stage Two: Uncertainty In stage two, we experience a shift from feeling attraction to feeling uncertain that our partner is right for us. The challenge in this stage is to recognize this uncertainty as normal and not be swayed by it. To become uncertain doesn’t mean that someone is not right for you. When you are dating someone who seems really special to you, it is quite normal suddenly to wonder whether you wish to continue dating that person. Without an understanding of this stage, it is too MARS AND VENUS ON A DATE / 5 easy for a man to drift from one partner to another and for a woman to make the mistake of pursuing a man more than he is pursuing her. Stage Three: Exclusivity In stage three we feel a desire to date a person exclusively. We want the opportunity to give and receive love in a special relationship without competition. We want to relax and have more time to share with our partner. All of the energy that went into looking for the right person can now go into creating a mutually loving and romantic relationship. The danger in this stage is that we become too comfortable and stop doing the little things that make our partners feel special. Stage Four: Intimacy In stage four we begin to experience real intimacy. We feel relaxed enough to let down our guard and share ourselves more deeply than before. The opportunity of this stage is to experience the best in ourselves and our partner, while the challenge to deal with our less-than-best sides. Without an understanding of how men and women react differently to intimacy, it is easy to conclude mistakenly that we are just too different to proceed. Stage Five: Engagement In stage five, with the certainty that we are with the person we want to marry, we become engaged. In this stage we have the opportunity to celebrate our love. This is the time to experience our relationship joyfully, happily, peacefully, and lovingly. This is a time of great excitement and promise. 6 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Many couples make the mistake of rushing into getting married. They do not understand that this is a vital time to gather positive experiences of sharing together and resolving disagreements and disappointments before the bigger challenges of being married, moving in together, and having a family. This stage provides a strong foundation for experiencing a lifetime of love and romance. Throughout Mars and Venus on a Date, we will explore in great detail the five stages of dating and the various questions that come up in each stage. Each chapter will provide you with fundamental insights about how men and women approach dating differently so that you can correctly interpret your partner and then choose to respond in ways that will not be misunderstood. In this way you will make use of every opportunity to create the relationship of your dreams. DATING CAN BE MUCH EASIER Whether you are starting over, just starting to date, or have been dating for years, one thing doesn’t seem to change: Dating is awkward and has definite moments of pain and discomfort. For some people, one of the primary motivations for getting married is to avoid dating. Yet dating doesn’t have to be so dreary or difficult, nor does it have to seem endless. As a matter of fact, if you are looking for that special someone, the fastest way of finding him or her—and being found—is to create positive dating experiences. The fastest way of finding a special partner or being found by someone is to create positive dating experiences. MARS AND VENUS ON A DATE / 7 Knowing what to expect in each of the five stages of dating makes it incredibly easier. For example, in the first stage—attraction—when a woman understands why a man doesn’t call back the next day, even when he is attracted and interested, it frees her from worrying unnecessarily. By learning a new approach for calling him that doesn’t minimize her position with him, it frees her even more to enjoy the dating process: no more sitting by the phone wondering when he will call. In a similar way, this understanding of our differences makes the whole process of dating much easier for a man. For example, when a man understands exactly what women need and what he needs to do to satisfy those needs, then it gives him the confidence that he can succeed in winning over the woman he wants and loves. Quite often, what he would want is not necessarily what she wants. By learning these differences, he can understand what to do at each of the five stages. THE POWER OF PREPARATION When we are prepared for what is to come, we are not thrown off guard, nor do we have to doubt ourselves. When our relationships make sense to us, we don’t make as many mistakes; we are also able to learn from mistakes and are thus released from making the same mistakes again and again. With this understanding of differences, we can be released from repeating negative patterns. Learning from mistakes helps prevent the repetition of negative patterns. Understanding that men are from Mars and women are from Venus will not necessarily make any date a lasting rela8 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. tionship, but it will make the process of dating more fun, more comfortable, and more rewarding. Sometimes it will help you to realize sooner that you are with the wrong person. This clarity will make it easier for you to move on to finding the right person. The sooner you discover that a person is not right for you, the sooner you can move on and find the right person. Through understanding the five stages of dating, you will clearly know where you are and where you want to go. When you are stuck in a pattern, you will be able to realize how to break free and move on. Without a doubt, when you are ready to fall in love with your soul mate, someone you connect with from your soul, your mate will be there. Through taking the risk of following your heart and exploring relationships with the intent to find the right person for you, you are preparing yourself to find true and lasting love. 2 Finding the Right Person for You Finding the right person for you is like hitting the center of a target in archery. To aim and hit the center takes a lot of practice. Some people may hit the center right away, but most do not. In a similar way, most people date several people before finding the right one. Some people take much longer than necessary because something is missing in their approach. By exploring this metaphor from archery, we can clearly see what may be lacking. Imagine that you aim for the target and you miss. Your shot is too far to the left. By simply acknowledging that you went too far to the left, your mind will automatically self-correct, and next time you will shoot more to the right. Through a series of attempts, your mind will continue to self-correct and you will eventually hit the target. It is the same in relationships. Each time you go out and discover that this is the wrong person for you, your mind 9 10 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. will self-correct, and next time you will feel more attracted to someone who is closer to being the right person. To make this self-correction in the kind of person we are attracted to or find interesting, we must clearly experience how far off the mark a shot was. If we are way off the mark, then we know to compensate a lot. If we are closer to the mark, then we compensate much less. In a similar way, if someone is clearly far from our type, then we need to compensate a lot, but if he or she is close, then we should compensate only a little. Correctly assessing someone is important for fine-tuning our ability to be attracted to someone who is either right for us or at least closer to the target. If you were blindfolded and every time you got closer to the target someone misdirected you, you would probably never hit the target. To self-correct after each shot, we need to get the correct feedback. With accurate information we can make the necessary adjustments in our next trajectory. Eventually we will just aim and hit the target. GOOD ENDINGS MAKE GOOD BEGINNINGS How we end a relationship and how we evaluate a date are essential to fine-tuning our ability to be attracted to the right person for us. The secret of making sure one relationship leads you to another one, closer to what you want, is to pay a lot of attention to how you end a relationship. How you end a relationship has an enormous impact on the quality of your next relationship. Good endings make good beginnings. When you end a relationship feeling either resentful or guilty, it is much harder to move on to find a person who is right for you. Quite often, when a relationship ends, we may feel angry that our partner let us down or didn’t fulfill our FINDING THE RIGHT PERSON FOR YOU / 11 expectations. Women most commonly feel that they gave a lot to a relationship and they didn’t get what they needed in return. As a result, they feel resentful. Men, on the other hand, tend to feel more guilt. They feel bad that the relationship didn’t turn out well and guilty if their partner felt unfulfilled. Although these dynamics—men feeling guilty and women feeling resentful—are common, it can also be the other way around. Generally the person who feels most rejected or abandoned feels resentful. The rejecter feels guilty. In either case, the result is the same. We end a relationship with a closed heart. Without an open heart, it is much more difficult to find the right person. When our hearts are open, we are able to be attracted to and even fall in love with the right person, or at least make progress in finding someone closer to the right person. When our hearts are open, we can be assured that we are getting closer to our goal. When our hearts are closed, however, we tend to repeat the same experiences. REPEATING PATTERNS When we end a relationship with resentment or guilt, we are attracted to someone who will help us deal with unresolved feelings and issues. Everyone has the experience of making a mistake or doing something that he or she regrets. It is perfectly normal to think back and feel, “I wish I hadn’t done that,” or, “I wish I hadn’t said that,” or, “I wish I hadn’t reacted that way,” and then feel, “I wish I could go back and do it differently.” It is human nature to want to go back and fix things or change things that we regret. When we regret a relationship, our automatic tendency is to be attracted to another person 12 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. we will regret meeting. We will repeat this pattern until we get it right. On the other hand, when we feel positive about a dating experience or an exclusive relationship that ended, we gain the ability to self-correct and move on. Instead of repeating the pattern the next time, we are attracted to someone closer to what we want. STAYING TOGETHER TOO LONG One of the reasons people end relationships with negative feelings is that they stay together too long. They do not recognize they are with the wrong person and move on. Instead, they try too hard to make a relationship work. They either try to change their partner or try to change themselves. In the process of trying to fit together, they make things worse. In trying to make a relationship that is close to the right one into the right one, they create frustration and disappointment. In the process of trying to make things better, they bring out the worst in their partner and themselves. This explains why so often after breaking up, many couples find that they can be better friends. When they were together, they would fight because deep inside they were either trying to change their partner too much or changing themselves too much in order to make the relationship a marriage. After they gave up trying to make a relationship more than it was, they could relate in a much more friendly and loving manner. When you try to fit a square peg into a round hole, it is just not going to fit no matter what you do. In the process of trying to make a fit when there isn’t a real fit, unnecessary struggle and strife are created. At a certain point you need to recognize when a partner is not a fit and move on. Bill and Susan dated for three years. After the first two FINDING THE RIGHT PERSON FOR YOU / 13 years, Bill was not sure he wanted to be with Susan and Susan tried to convince him that they could make it work. The longer they tried, the worse things became. Susan was always suspicious that Bill was interested in other women. Although he stayed faithful, she would ask him questions all the time about what he was doing, where he was going, and how he felt about her. Susan became closed and mistrusting, while Bill reacted by feeling trapped, irritable, and distant. Finally, after many bitter arguments about trivial things, they broke up, both feeling rejected and angry. Instead of bringing out the best they had to offer, their relationship brought out their worst sides. They would argue and bicker all the time. Certainly they were also lacking good communication skills, but even that would not have saved their relationship. They were not right for each other, but didn’t know how to end the relationship. WHEN LOVE IS NOT ENOUGH As Bill and Susan moved through the first three stages of dating, everything had been fine, but in the fourth stage it went downhill. As Bill got to know Susan, he began to think he was not right for her and she was not right for him. He loved her, but he didn’t want to marry her. This didn’t make sense to him, and it definitely did not make sense to Susan. She would feel his hesitancy in continuing their relationship and confront him. She would say, “If you love me, then why don’t you want to be with me? How can you just end this relationship? It’s not fair. I thought you loved me. How can you love me and want to leave me? We have something special. You’re just afraid of intimacy. You’re not giving us a chance….” Bill’s only answer was the same, “I love you, but I don’t 14 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. feel you are the one for me.” Susan could not hear this, and finally they had so many arguments that they broke up. They couldn’t even decide where to go to eat without getting into an argument. Neither Bill nor Susan knew that it was perfectly healthy to get to know a person, fall in love, and then discover that this person is not the right one. Instead of ending their relationship with love, they ended it because they had so many arguments that they just didn’t like each other anymore. Without this important insight, many people end relationships by focusing on the negative instead of by focusing on the positive. HOW DO YOU KNOW WHEN SOMEONE IS RIGHT? Quite often single people ask, “How do you know if someone is right?” When you ask people who know they are with the right person, they will generally say something like, “Well, I don’t exactly know what to tell you—you just know.” When soul mates fall in love there is simply a recognition. It is as clear and simple as recognizing that the sun is shining today, or the water I am drinking is cool and refreshing, or the rock I am holding is solid. When you are with the right person you just know. This knowing is not in any way dependent on a long list of reasons or qualifications. Soul love is unconditional. When the right person comes along you “just know,” and you spend the rest of your life discovering why he or she is the right person. While this answer is true, it is also very misleading. It could imply that if you don’t “just know,” you are with the wrong person. This is not necessarily true. The most accurate answer to this question is that you “just know” when you have created the right conditions to know, when your heart opens FINDING THE RIGHT PERSON FOR YOU / 15 and you happen to be with the right person. If you open your heart and you happen to be with the wrong person, then you “just know” that you are with the wrong person. This knowing who you want to spend your life with comes from opening your heart. Even if you are with the right person, you cannot “just know” if you do not first create the right conditions to open your heart to someone. Moving through the five stages of dating creates the right conditions for you to develop the ability to “just know” when the right person comes along. It also allows you to “just know” when you are with the wrong person. Once you are able to “just know,” then the easy part is to find or be found by the right person. Each decision you make will lead you closer to hitting the target. WHAT MANY SINGLE PEOPLE DON’T UNDERSTAND Many single people don’t understand this basic truth. They mistakenly believe that if you love someone, you should want to have a relationship with them. This is not right. The closer someone is to being the right person, the more you will be able to see him or her as worthy of your love, but still this might not be the right person for you. Just because you love someone doesn’t mean he or she is the one for you. Many people become confused when they fall in love. They think that if you love someone you should want to be together forever. If you break up, they mistakenly assume that you didn’t really love them and as a result they feel betrayed. People do not realize that love is not enough. If they discover that their partner is not right, either they feel guilty ending the relationship or they unnecessarily focus on what does not work in the relationship in order to justify leaving. Some people will automatically become more critical and 16 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. judgmental to justify ending a relationship. When couples don’t know how to end a relationship with love, they bring out the worst in their partners and the worst in themselves. Not only is this unnecessary, but it makes it more difficult to find the right person next time. WHAT IT TAKES In most cases it takes both time and progression through the five stages before you can recognize your true life partner and soul mate. Certainly there are games and manipulations to make someone love you and want to marry you, but if a person is not right for you, then you will not necessarily live happily ever after. One of the reasons there is so much divorce today is that people do not move through the five stages. They rush through them or skip a few stages. There are games and manipulations to make someone love you and want to marry you, but this doesn’t ensure that he or she will be right for you. It was fine in previous generations to marry someone without first getting to know him or her, because the need for security was the basis of marriage. Our ancestors were primarily motivated to find a mate in order to secure their survival and the survival of children. In our parents’ generation, they learned to be loving and grew to love each other. But this did not guarantee that romance would last. For most couples in history, marriage meant the end of romance. Never in history has lasting romance been associated with marriage. If we are to find a partner with whom our love and passion can grow, he or she must be very FINDING THE RIGHT PERSON FOR YOU / 17 special—someone picked out and recognized by our soul. It is a decision made in our hearts that sometimes feels as though it were made in heaven. FINDING A SOUL MATE A soul mate is someone who has the unique ability to bring out the best in us. Soul mates are not perfect, but perfect for us. While they can bring out the best in us, without good communication skills they can also bring out the worst in us, and vice versa. We are not just physically turned on to them; our soul gets turned on as well. There are basically four kinds of chemistry between dating partners; physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual. Physical chemistry generates desire. Emotional chemistry generates affection. Mental chemistry creates interest. Spiritual chemistry creates love. A soul mate includes all four. PHYSICAL ATTRACTION IS NOT ENOUGH Physical chemistry alone is very short-lived. A man can easily be turned on by a seductive woman who promises sexual gratification without any strings. For many young men, just the opportunity for sex causes physical chemistry. After a few brief encounters of physical passion this chemistry will quickly dissipate. I was amazed as a counselor to discover a striking pattern. Quite often women who were extremely attractive, who looked like models and movie stars, and in some cases were, would share the same complaint. Their husbands were not sexually attracted to them. I was dumbfounded. I couldn’t imagine any available man not being attracted to these women. Yet it was true. I eventually realized why. 18 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. These women had been pursued by men who were primarily sexually attracted to them but didn’t really get to know them. When a man feels sexual chemistry, quite often he thinks he knows a woman; he feels interested in her, he likes her, he even thinks he loves her. The real test is whether he still likes and loves her after he gets to know her. Although it may feel like love, it is not necessarily real or lasting. When a relationship passes the test of time, the love is real. These men who stopped being attracted to their partners did not betray these women. Both partners were responsible. They put too much emphasis on the physical aspect of the relationship and didn’t create the opportunity to know and love each other enough to discover if they were soul mates. When physical chemistry is not backed up by chemistry in the mind, heart, and soul, then it cannot last or grow in time. Once the pleasures and passions of the body are experienced without corresponding passions of the mind, heart, and soul, the physical chemistry will dissipate. Physical attraction can be sustained for a lifetime only when it springs from chemistry of the mind, heart, and soul as well. THE SOUL AND LASTING LOVE The soul is that aspect of who we are that is most lasting. When the soul is attracted to someone and recognizes a mate, then with that person, because we experience a soul chemistry, the physical, emotional, and mental chemistry can also be sustained. Lasting physical attraction must find its source in our souls. On the level of the soul, you are the same throughout your life. The person who was a little child is the same person you are now. You are you all of your life. The soul is that part of you that doesn’t change. The way you physically look, the FINDING THE RIGHT PERSON FOR YOU / 19 way you feel, and the way you think about things, however, do change. The most change happens on the physical level. Everything on the physical plane is always changing. As we progress to the emotional plane, we change less. All adults can easily reflect back and still feel many of the feelings they had in childhood or young adulthood. On the mental plane, change is even less. We tend to be interested in the same sort of things our entire lives. Certainly there is some change, but definitely not as much as on the physical level. On the soul plane we are always the same. The soul is who you are when you strip away the body, mind, and heart. Your soul has a potential that takes an entire lifetime to be fully realized. When a couple are soul mates, when their souls recognize and love each other and they are attracted to each other physically, emotionally, and mentally, then this love not only can last but can continue to grow and become richer as the years pass. This does not mean that everything will flow easily and effortlessly. It simply means you have the potential to be successful. OPENING OUR HEARTS In the early stages of dating, when our hearts are not fully open to each other, we depend on our feelings of attraction and interest to find the right person. Feelings of attraction and interest can only lead us into a relationship that meets our emotional needs. Once we begin to get our emotional needs met in a relationship, our hearts begin to open and we experience real love and intimacy. As we get to know our partner with love, it is still not certain that we will pick him or her as our soul mate. We may feel a deep soul love, but still that person may not be the one. Finding a deep and lasting love does not mean 20 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. that a person is the perfect person for you. When some people mistakenly assume that loving a person means marriage, they can never open up to feel the love in their hearts because they are not sure that they want to marry that person. This catch-22 happens a lot to men. A man can sense that a woman wants to know if he loves her. He doesn’t want to share those feelings because, if he does, she will expect him to marry her and be greatly hurt if he doesn’t. In romantic movies, loving someone meant that you wanted to marry her. In real life, it is not always the case. MARRIAGE IS A CHOICE Marriage is a choice, but not like any other choice. You don’t marry just any person you love. Instead, you first find love and then you are capable of making the right choice. As we have already explored, the experience of real love for a person doesn’t necessarily mean he or she is the one for you. The experience of real love does connect us to our soul. With this connection, we are then able to know what our soul wants to do. Choosing a soul mate is not a mental decision based on the pros and cons of a relationship. It is not an emotional decision based on comparing how a person makes you feel. It is not a physical decision based on how a person looks. It is much deeper. When our soul wants to marry our partner, it feels like a promise that we came into this world to keep. It feels as if we are supposed to be together and share our lives. When our soul wants to marry our partner, it feels like a promise that we came into this world to keep. FINDING THE RIGHT PERSON FOR YOU / 21 When our soul wants to get married, it feels as if we have no choice. We have to do it if we are to be true to ourselves. It is this kind of commitment that can sustain a lifetime of love. It empowers us to make the necessary sacrifices and overcome the inevitable challenges that come with marriage; it graces us with the experience of incomparable joy and fulfillment. Many people mistakenly associate love with the right person for marriage because it is only when our hearts are open, and filled with love, that we can truly know someone and know the truth in our hearts. We can pick the right person only when our hearts are open, but it is also true that we can know for sure that a person is wrong only if our hearts are open as well. With a clearer understanding of this, we are then free to end relationships without feeling guilty or resentful. Instead of feeling betrayed because someone loved us and rejected us, we can instead realize, “Yes, you loved me, but we were not right for each other. I was not the one for you. I feel disappointed and hurt, but I can forgive you and wish you well. Now I can move on to finding the right person for me.” Let’s look at an example. When Bill Rejected Susan When Bill rejected Susan, her attitude was, “We could have made this work if only you had made a commitment to me, if you had only gotten help. If you had cared more and tried harder, we could have made this work. If you had not given so much of your time to your work and been more supportive of me, then we could have gotten married and lived happily ever after. But no. You had to ruin everything and give up. My life is ruined by this. You were the person 22 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. for me and now you have wasted three years of my life.” In personal counseling she would pine away, feeling, “How can someone you love so much not be the right one? Why does this relationship have to end?” When I assured her that she would find someone better, she just wouldn’t believe it. To some extent, almost anyone who has ever been rejected in a relationship that ended has felt some of Susan’s feelings. Certainly, it is normal to have these kinds of feelings, but they must be released and replaced by positive feelings of love and forgiveness. When Susan Got Involved Again After about three months, Susan did get involved again. She fell deeply in love with Jack. Everything was moving along fine for about a year, but then Susan realized that Jack was wrong for her. She loved Jack, but as she got to know him better, she realized that he just wasn’t the right person for her. When she tried to end her relationship with Jack, he kept asking her to reconsider and try again. Susan felt guilty leaving Jack because he was feeling so hurt. They tried for a few more months, but eventually Susan saw that it was just going to get worse. She actually heard Jack say things about her that she had told Bill when he wanted to leave her. It was then that Susan was open to knowing that you could love someone but not want to marry him. In personal counseling sessions, Susan was finally able to forgive Bill. She could now understand why he left. Before, she just didn’t get it. With this new understanding, she was now able to think about Bill in a friendly way; she was able to release the resentment she felt in her heart. FINDING THE RIGHT PERSON FOR YOU / 23 She was also able to end the relationship with Jack without feeling guilty or bad. In her heart, she knew that Jack was not right for her and that if she was going to find the right person for her, then she would have to move on. In the past, she would have felt guilty and dragged out the relationship until things got really bad. This time she was able to move on, feeling compassion for Jack but not guilt. She was grateful for the time they had shared, but she was now ready to end the relationship. Within three more months, Susan met Tom. They quickly moved through all five stages of dating. Within nine months, they were married. They are soul mates and have been living happily together for the last twelve years. They expect to share the rest of their lives together. Now Susan is very grateful that Bill was courageous enough to follow his heart and end the relationship. Bill also moved on eventually to find his soul mate. Susan’s story illustrates the importance of understanding that love is not enough and the importance of ending relationships in a positive manner. By eventually letting go of their resentments and feelings of guilt, Susan and Bill were able to find their soul mates. PREPARING OURSELVES The first challenge in the process of dating is to give up searching for your soul mate and instead focus on preparing yourself so that you can recognize your soul mate when he or she appears. Most people find or are found by their soul mates when they are not really looking. When you are ready your soul mate will appear. Most people find or are found by their soul mates when they are not really looking. 24 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. A big part of preparing ourselves is getting to know ourselves. As teenagers, we are still getting to know what it means to be masculine or feminine. Dating the opposite sex is exciting because we are getting to know not only the opposite sex but ourselves as well. When we are younger we date not to find a soul mate but to learn about ourselves and explore our feelings of attraction. These feelings of attraction are generally crushes. We may think we love someone, but we are really infatuated. We are thrilled by the anticipation of being with someone, and then when we actually get to know the person we are not so excited. Certainly we are experiencing some genuine attraction, affection, and interest, but it has not yet ripened into real soul love. Going through this process is, however, an important part of preparing to find the right person. Sometimes, after a relationship fails or if we feel rejected, even if we are much older, we will need to date for a while just to feel good about ourselves as a man or woman. Once we feel secure that we are attractive to the opposite sex, then we are ready to move beyond the first stage of dating and more seriously consider an exclusive relationship. AUTONOMY IS THE BASIS FOR INTIMACY In our twenties we are generally getting to know ourselves as autonomous beings separate from and not fully dependent on our parents. We need to experiment and explore who we are, what we like, what we don’t like, what we can do, what we need, and what we don’t need. As we become more autonomous and mature, we automatically begin looking for more in our relationships. FINDING THE RIGHT PERSON FOR YOU / 25 Even at sixty-five, if we have just ended a long-term relationship or marriage, in many ways we are once again like a twenty-year-old. Our first test is to once again find a sense of autonomy. This sense of autonomy is the basis of intimacy. When we are on the rebound, instead of looking for someone to share with, we are like a hungry person looking for food. We are just looking for someone to feed us. To be ready for intimacy and thus able to recognize the right person, we must first be able to feed ourselves. Only then can we enjoy feeding and being fed by a partner. Regardless of what age we are, as we begin to feel more independent and autonomous, we are not satisfied with dating just anyone attractive, nice, or interesting to us. We want something more than just a good time or fun together. We want a deeper and richer opportunity to know someone and to be known. Quite automatically we begin to feel the need to explore what a loving, exclusive relationship could offer. SOUL MATES ARE NOT PERFECT Another important insight about soul mates is that they are never perfect. They will not have everything on your list of ideal qualities. They come with baggage. They, like you, have good days and bad days. They may not look the way you thought they would look, they may have flaws that you don’t like very much. They are not perfect, but when your heart is open and you know them, they are somehow perfect for you. The love you spontaneously feel for a soul mate is the foundation for learning to share your life with someone who in many ways is very different from you. That love motivates you to cooperate, respect, appreciate, cherish, and admire that person. In this process, which is not always easy or com26 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. fortable, you become a better person. Your soul has a chance to grow. When a caterpillar makes its transformation into a butterfly, it is not an easy process. The little butterfly struggles to break free of the cocoon. In that very process of struggling to get out, the butterfly exercises its wing muscles and builds up the necessary strength to fly. If you compassionately cut open the cocoon to make it easier for the butterfly, it will never gain the strength to fly. Instead it just dies. If your life partner did not challenge you in some ways, the best would not be drawn from you. Soul mates are the perfect partners to bring out the best in us, and sometimes that is done by having to work through issues. In a marriage, you have to overcome all kinds of negative tendencies—being too judgmental, critical, selfish, compliant, demanding, needy, rigid, accommodating, righteous, doubtful, impatient, and so on. A soul mate gives you the opportunity to rise above these tendencies. When your dark side surfaces, you become stronger and more loving by exercising the love you feel deep in your heart to resolve an issue. In this process your soul, like the butterfly, has a chance to fly free. WHEN YOU CAN’T MAKE UP YOUR MIND If you are the type who expects perfection, you may never be satisfied with one person unless you are first able to open your heart. When we can’t make up our minds about a person, the secret of success is to give the relationship a chance until you clearly “just know.” Then if this is the right person, you get engaged. If not, you break up and don’t look back for at least a year. Let’s look at an example. Richard is forty-seven years old. He has never been married, but has dated hundreds of women. He is attractive, FINDING THE RIGHT PERSON FOR YOU / 27 charming, and successful, and he wants to get married. There have been some special ones, but he was never able to settle down. There was always something missing. This is how he describes these special women: Sarah was wonderful; she was bubbly and energetic, everything that I am not. I like how I feel around her. We almost got married, but she didn’t want to move and I didn’t want to move. Carol always loved me just the way I was. She loved being with me and we had a great time together. She was really so wonderful, I really couldn’t ask for more, except that she wasn’t bubbly and energetic like Sarah. Mary was the most beautiful woman I have ever met. She was smart and successful, and I always felt proud when I was with her in public. I thought about marrying her, but she wasn’t as accepting as Carol was. Carol liked everything about me. With Mary I felt I had to stay on my toes. I liked that feeling, but I don’t think I could live my life like that. Richard could go on for hours and hours comparing women. The bottom line was that he was expecting one woman to have it all. The more he experienced women, the more good qualities he wanted in his soul mate. Richard was always comparing because he was looking for perfection. He wanted all he could get. THE IMPORTANCE OF EXCLUSIVITY Besides not knowing that a soul mate is not perfect, the main reason Richard would get caught up in his head was that he was never just seeing one woman at a time. He was never in 28 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. an exclusive relationship. He didn’t give himself the chance to open his heart with just one woman. After being attracted to one woman, instead of staying with her during the uncertainty stage, he would feel uncertain and begin comparing and looking elsewhere. He always had a back door, someone he could be with if this one didn’t work out. Before he could open up to a woman and risk being rejected, he would have another one lined up. As a result, he never had the chance to be exclusive with one woman for more than six months. In all his special relationships, he would skip the exclusivity stage and move to stage four (intimacy) and then back to stage two (uncertainty). While feeling uncertain he would then notice other women and pursue them. By moving back and forth between stages and between partners, he was never able to find the knowledge in his heart that a woman was either right or wrong for him. Why Richard Couldn’t Commit Certainly there were childhood experiences in Richard’s past that aggravated this tendency, but his inability to commit had roots in his failure to move through all of the first four stages. It had never been explained to him why it was so important to be exclusive as a preparation to recognizing the right person. He thought he should first recognize and be intimate with the right person and then be exclusive, rather than be exclusive (stage three) and then intimate (stage four). Still, he looks back at many of the women he has loved and feels that four or five would have been perfect if only they were a little different. He still wonders, “Maybe she was the right one; maybe she was the best I could get.” Although Richard does not feel resentful or guilty, he does FINDING THE RIGHT PERSON FOR YOU / 29 feel incomplete. He isn’t clear about whether any of these women was right or wrong. Unless he finally gives himself a chance to find out by being exclusive with just one, he will never find out. Unless he learns that shooting in a certain direction is definitely wrong, he will never be able to self-correct and shoot in another direction to hit the target. In his mind, he is still thinking that four or five different directions might be the way to go. By ending relationships in an incomplete manner, he has unknowingly sabotaged his ability to find a soul mate. One of these women might already be his soul mate, and he doesn’t even know it. His only hope is to stop comparing and looking for perfection. He should find a woman to whom he is attracted, who clearly has some potential, and pursue her through the first four stages. Then he will finally gain the ability to “just know.” Even if he “just knows” this one to be the wrong one, at least he knows. From there, he will find some completion to make sure his next relationship is closer to the mark. WHEN A MAN CAN’T COMMIT While Richard is incomplete about his past relationships, Jason, who is thirty-two years old, is seeing six women concurrently. He just can’t make up his mind. He feels, “So many wonderful women, how can you decide?” It is hard for him to make a decision because he is stuck in stage two (uncertainty) and then jumps ahead to stage four (intimacy). He will date a woman for a few weeks or months. As they really get to know each other and experience some real intimacy, his doubt comes up and he gets involved with one of his other girlfriends, since he has not yet committed himself to exclusivity. By going back and forth, he is not and will 30 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. never be able to make up his mind and settle down. Just as Jason is making a mistake to be seeing so many women, the women who date Jason are making a big mistake as well. They are willing to have sex with him and they are not in any way being assured by him that he is exclusive. These women make the common mistake of pursuing a man more than he is pursuing them. Jason will talk to one partner about the problems in his life, which include his difficulties in his relationships with other women. This kind of intimate discussion is completely inappropriate and it ends up making the man more ambivalent. A woman should not behave with a man as if she is exclusive or intimate if he is still working through issues with other women. And she should not mistakenly believe that if she listens sympathetically to him, he will become convinced she is the one for him. When a woman makes the mistake of dating a man and behaving as if she is in an exclusive, intimate relationship, when in truth the man is seeing other women, then it will be very difficult for the man to ever become clear and recognize her as his soul mate. INCREASING DISCERNMENT Each time we use dating as an opportunity to move through the different stages, our ability to discern and recognize the right person increases. Even the wrong person becomes the right person to help us self-correct and move on. Through making sure that you relate appropriately to the stage of the relationship you are in, your chances of eventually finding the right person for you go up dramatically. This understanding of the five stages of dating will prepare you to recognize when true and lasting love is possible with a FINDING THE RIGHT PERSON FOR YOU / 31 particular person and when it is not. The time you spend in any relationship is not a loss if you learn from it and complete it in a positive way. Each time you follow your heart and then plainly recognize that someone is not right for you, then you are definitely one step closer to finding the right person for you. WHY COUPLES ARE WAITING TO GET MARRIED Recent marriage statistics reveal that both men and women are waiting longer to get married. Some people worry that this is a problem, when really it is a sign of greater wisdom in young couples. They are waiting to get married. They are wanting to first get a sense of who they are, what they can do, what they want to do, and where they are going before deciding to make a marriage commitment. It is wise to first know yourself before trying to share yourself in a marriage. It is wise to first know yourself before trying to share yourself in a marriage. When people get married before feeling autonomous, they run the risk of being too dependent on each other for love. They do not get the opportunity to experience sufficient independence to discover how they can be fulfilled without having a partner to depend on. Instead of taking a few more years to fully release their dependence on their parents and become dependent on themselves, they shift from their parents to a partner for love and support. By rushing into an intimate relationship, they can miss the opportunity to discover the inner confidence, self-assuredness, and autonomy necessary to make a marriage work. 32 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Just as living separately from our parents is an important part of growing up, living separately from the opposite sex is equally important. Finding fulfillment through living alone or sharing a dwelling with friends of the same sex provides a strong foundation for eventually being able to share a life with someone of the opposite sex. Just as living separately from our parents is an important part of growing up, living separately from the opposite sex is equally important. When we are not fulfilled through our work and friendships, then we are attracted to someone who can fill us up rather than someone we can share with. Instead of coming together to overflow, we come together primarily to fill up. With this understanding it becomes clear that being fulfilled as a single person is the basis of finding the right person and being successful in marriage. THE WISDOM OF GOING SLOWLY This does not mean that a couple cannot succeed if they get married early; it just means that there will be extra challenges. If a couple are in doubt, then—particularly if they are in their twenties—they should go slowly. The sad truth is that many married couples are soul mates but they do not know it. The process of dating and preparing to get married was in some way missed, and as a result they never really find their soul connection. This is not to say that once married they cannot find it, but it is much easier to find by thoroughly going through the five stages of dating. Ultimately, taking the time to really get to know someone is the secret of success. The old saying, “To know him is to FINDING THE RIGHT PERSON FOR YOU / 33 love him”—of her, of course—applies to a soul mate. Moving through the five stages ensures that you get an opportunity to fully know someone and experience the best of that person before getting married. Certainly it is possible to be lucky and just get married right away to someone without going through all the stages, but for most people, to know they are with the right person and to ensure that after they get married the passion will be sustained, it is extremely useful to move through each of the five stages before getting married. If you have perfected all the dating skills presented in this book, it does not mean that you can take any relationship through the five stages of dating and get married and live happily ever after. But by applying these insights you will gain the ability to recognize and find the right person for you and assist that person in recognizing you. 3 Stage One: Attraction Although feelings of attraction are automatic, in order to sustain attraction in a personal relationship we must also be skillful in presenting ourselves in ways that are not just appealing to the other sex but supportive as well. It is not enough to say, “Here I am; take me as I am.” The alchemy of creating a loving relationship is a very delicate balance of giveand-take. The blending together of male and female must be done in gradual stages. In stage one, quite often it is the anticipation that we can get what we need or want from a relationship with a potential partner that tends to sustain attraction. Without a clear message that we can get what we need, the attraction will disappear. It can be so easy to misinterpret our date’s actions and reactions and be turned off simply because we think and feel so differently. One of the biggest challenges in the beginning of a relationship is to sustain the feeling of 34 STAGE ONE: ATTRACTION / 35 attraction and give it a chance to grow as we get to know someone. EXPRESSING YOUR MOST POSITIVE SELF To sustain attraction in stage one, we must express our best and most positive self. Without an understanding of the customs and manners on Venus, a man can put his best foot forward and unknowingly turn a date off. Most men just don’t understand the way women feel and what they are looking for. When a man is interested in a woman, quite automatically he treats her the way he would want to be treated. In many cases, that is not what a woman will appreciate. While trying to impress her he inadvertently turns her off. To various degrees, most men are simply clueless when it comes to understanding women. Without an understanding of the customs and manners on Venus, a man can put his best foot forward and unknowingly turn a date off. For example, instead of taking the time to listen and get to know his date, a man talks about himself or his theories about life. He thinks this will impress her, and because she keeps asking questions, he thinks this is what she wants. When she does get a chance to talk, he mistakenly assumes she is asking for his advice and begins offering solutions to her problems or answers to her questions. Without even knowing why or how, he begins to turn her off. Larry brought Phoebe to a restaurant for their first official date. I happened to be sitting next to them at another table. I observed that throughout the whole dinner Larry did all the talking. He spoke like a professor to his class. Phoebe always 36 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. looked him the eyes, listened attentively, and with a little smile she nodded her head now and then. It was a sad sight. When Phoebe would occasionally say something, instead of drawing her more into the conversation, Larry very quickly started expounding again. It was easy to tell that he really liked what he was saying, but it was also easy to see that Phoebe was being polite but felt bored and left out. What could have been a delightful evening was a disappointment for both. They never connected because Larry did all the talking. If Larry had understood Venusians, he would have asked Phoebe more questions to draw her out. If Phoebe had understood Martians, she would have just interrupted and talked more instead of continuing to politely listen and ask questions. A man doesn’t instinctively understand manners on Venus. In some ways he is like a bull in a china shop, oblivious of the effect he is having. He doesn’t realize that a woman will feel most supported and impressed when he listens with interest rather than talking about himself or giving advice. This small insight can make a world of difference. ASKING FOR HER NUMBER What makes dating difficult is not understanding the opposite sex. A man wonders if he should ask a woman for her number or not. He wonders how to get it. He wonders if she is attracted to him. He doesn’t realize his power to win her over and become attractive to her. He doesn’t realize how he starts becoming more attractive to her by: • first initiating eye contact • just noticing her STAGE ONE: ATTRACTION / 37 • politely and casually looking her over as she looks away • being interested in getting to know her • liking her • being attracted to her • taking the risk of introducing himself • asking some friendly questions • looking at her when she talks • giving her his full attention • complimenting her • letting her know at the end of the conversation that he would like to call her (It can be so simple to say, “I’d like to give you a call.”) Whenever a man does something to make a woman feel special, in her eyes he becomes more attractive. Women have said in my seminars that even if they are not at first attracted to a man, his interest makes him more attractive. If he takes the risk of asking for her number or asking her out, she is inclined to say yes just because he took the risk. It makes her feel special and she feels flattered. When a man can do all of the above without being dependent on getting anything else other than the pleasure of getting to know her, this makes him even more attractive. A woman can sense if a man’s ability to feel good about himself is dependent on her responses to his advances. If she has to care too much about his needs, if she has to be overly sensitive not to hurt his feelings, then he becomes less attractive. When she is free not to worry about him, but simply enjoy the fact that he cares about her, then she becomes more attracted to him. Most men don’t realize the incredible power they have to sweep a woman off her feet. The understanding of how we are different gives a man that power. 38 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. HOW WOMEN MISUNDERSTAND MEN Women also misunderstand men. A woman often mistakenly assumes that if a man is the right man for her, he will know what she wants and will automatically consider her needs and do the things she does to show that he cares. When he doesn’t fulfill this unrealistic expectation, then she becomes unnecessarily frustrated and discouraged. For example, a woman will make the mistake of demonstrating her interest by asking a man a lot of questions. As he talks she continues to listen patiently. She assumes that if she listens with great interest, he will be more interested in her. This is true on Venus, but not true on Mars. The more a man talks, the more interested he becomes in what he is talking about. For a man to become more interested in a woman, she needs to do more of the talking and authentically share herself in a positive manner. And how a woman talks can make a world of difference. On Venus, when two friends get together they enjoy the opportunity to share freely the mishaps, frustrations, disappointments, and complaints of the week. A woman’s willingness to “share all” is actually a compliment to the other woman. It is a sign of trust, goodwill, and friendship. On Venus, friends enjoy the opportunity to share freely the mishaps, frustrations, disappointments, and complaints of the week. While this gesture on Venus may be “putting your best foot forward,” on Mars it is not. A man can easily get the wrong impression. When a woman dwells on negative feelings or problems in her life, instead of valuing her willingness to share openly, a man mistakenly assumes that she is STAGE ONE: ATTRACTION / 39 difficult to please. Just as a woman is attracted to a man who shows interest in her, a man is attracted to a woman who clearly can be pleased. When she appears to be difficult to please, he may easily become turned off. A man is attracted to a woman who clearly can be pleased. To create the ideal opportunity to experience the best a man has to offer and for a man to experience her best, a woman needs to be careful to share the positive side of her life and avoid dwelling on negative experiences. Conversation should be light, not heavy, focused on current events in the world and in their lives, but discussed in a positive manner. This does not imply in any way that she should be fake. Authenticity is what makes anyone most attractive. Everyone has a positive and negative side, everyone has ups and downs, and everyone has a needy side and an autonomous side. Putting her best foot forward means sharing her most positive side, her up side, and her autonomous side. Later on she can share the other part. It is just a matter of timing. To make the best impression and to get to know someone most effectively, it is important that we first get a chance to know the positive side. In the first three stages of dating—attraction, uncertainty, and exclusivity—it is best to focus on putting forth our best self. After getting to know our best sides, then in stage four, intimacy, we are ready to deal with the less positive sides of who we are. After getting to know our best sides, we are ready to deal with the less positive sides of who we are. 40 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Then, when we experience the challenges that come up in any relationship, we are much more capable of being accepting and understanding. Too much intimacy, too quickly, can cause women to become needy and men to pull away. Just as men have a tendency to rush into physical intimacy, women make the mistake of rushing into complete emotional intimacy. WHEN A WOMAN GIVES ON A DATE A woman commonly assumes that by giving a man the support she would want, he will become more interested in her. To put her best foot forward, a woman makes the mistake of treating a man the way she would want to be treated. She eagerly responds to his attentiveness by being overly interested in him. She responds to his consideration by being overly considerate of him; when he is of assistance to her she immediately wants to return the favor instead of just smiling and saying thank you. A woman doesn’t instinctively understand that after being receptive to a man’s advances and appreciating his efforts, she doesn’t owe him anything. She has already given him what he most wants. She has given him the opportunity to know her, please her, and connect with her. A woman needs to remember that she is the special one. It is the man’s pleasure to have the opportunity to be with her. When she does not hold this attitude, it makes it difficult for a man’s attraction to grow. After being receptive to a man’s advances and appreciating his efforts, a woman doesn’t owe a man anything. When a man is attracted to a woman, he gets excited because he anticipates that he can make her happy and that STAGE ONE: ATTRACTION / 41 in turn makes him feel really good; it brings the best of him out. The anticipation of more is very important to keep him interested. If he feels completely satisfied, then there is no distance for him to continue traveling to pursue her. Distance not only makes the heart grow fonder but gives a man the opportunity to pursue. Without movement and the opportunity for more, a man can easily lose the interest necessary to move through all five stages of dating. Distance not only makes the heart grow fonder but gives a man the opportunity to pursue. When a woman feels attracted to a man, her feelings are very different. She gets excited because she anticipates that he could make her happy, and that in turn makes her feel really good. It brings the best out in her and makes her want to give to him. A woman becomes excited because she anticipates receiving what she needs and then freely giving in return. A man becomes excited because he feels he can be successful in winning her over. When she is happy, he takes credit. Her fulfillment makes him most happy. His success in fulfilling her makes her most happy. UNLOCKING THE CAR DOOR When women do not understand men, they easily make the mistake of diffusing the attraction by continuing to give back, instead of increasing the attraction by continuing to receive. This tendency shows up most clearly when a man takes a woman on a special date. When he picks her up, she is beautifully dressed and looks great. He takes notice and tells her so. She is pleased. He walks her to the passenger side 42 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. of the car, unlocks the door, and lets her in. After she is comfortably seated, he closes the door. She smiles and thanks him. Then he walks around to his side of the car to get in. What does she do? Does she reach across to unlock his door or let him unlock his door as well? When a woman doesn’t understand the dynamics of creating attraction and giving a man the distance he needs to pursue her, her tendency is to reach across the car, even if it is very uncomfortable to do, and open his door. Although this seems like the fair and loving thing to do, it is not. It is over-giving, it compromises her position, and it prevents the excitement of anticipation and romance from building in a man and in her as well. When a woman is too eager to please, a man doesn’t experience the distance he needs to pursue her. Some women argue that it would be selfish not to reach over to his side of the car and return the gesture. Quite often these are the single women in the audience and not the married ones. Now, certainly, if there is an unlock button on her side of the car, it could be okay to find it and push it, but to twist her body and reach way over, particularly when she is all dressed up, is neither graceful nor receptive. The whole point of the dating ritual is for the man to do little things to show his interest and caring and for the woman to receive him and take some time to discover how interested she is. If she is going to reach over and unlock the door, then why would he have bothered to escort her to the car door in the first place? He is trying to be a gentleman and do something nice. She should let him be successful and gracefully receive and benefit from his gift. STAGE ONE: ATTRACTION / 43 When a woman reaches across to unlock a man’s door it defeats the whole purpose of the date and confuses their roles. Instead, if she just happily waits, appreciating his attentiveness to her, there is a greater opportunity for the attraction to grow. When a woman reaches across to unlock a man’s door, it defeats the whole purpose of the date and confuses their roles. A man is often so used to women reaching across and making things comfortable and easy for him that when a woman doesn’t reach over, he may be a little surprised and grumble inside. He may think, Humph, I unlocked her door. Why didn’t she unlock mine? He may even be momentarily distant and aloof. Then he will realize, Oh, she didn’t reach across because it is awkward and uncomfortable. Even more important, when he looks over and sees that she is gracious, happy, and fulfilled, he takes credit. Now he starts to feel a little proud: Yes, I opened the car door, I am taking her on a date, and she is pleased. As his positive feelings come up, the grumbles go away and his attraction and respect for her go up. WHY WOMEN GIVE TOO MUCH A woman will tend to give too much in the beginning of a relationship when she doesn’t understand how men think and feel. A man hungers for the opportunity to make a woman happy. It fulfills him to make her happy. Her happiness is his happiness. This, however, is not the way women are. A woman is not primarily fulfilled by making a man happy. A woman needs to feel she is getting what she needs in a relationship. Then she can freely and happily give her 44 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. love. When she is getting her needs met, then and only then is his happiness hers. When men feel good about themselves, they are most motivated to please a woman. The more a man’s life is in order, the more he hungers for a woman to share it with. Although he may feel very autonomous and independent, he begins to feel empty. He is missing something. That something is satisfied through fulfilling a woman or making her happy. A woman need never feel obligated to please a man. By giving him the opportunity to please her more, she allows a man to be most fulfilled. A woman need never feel obligated to please a man. This concept is hard for women to understand, because when a woman feels autonomous and independent, instead of feeling a need to care for someone, she feels the need for someone to care for her. When she feels empty and hungers for a relationship, she has already spent most of herself giving to others. Romance for her is the opportunity to relax and let someone else take charge of her needs. When she feels empty, she feels a need to receive. If she was feeling empty and continued to give, then it would make her very unhappy if she didn’t get something in return. A simple smile and a thank you from the man she was giving to would not be enough. When a man feels empty, and can succeed in fulfilling a woman’s needs, a simple smile and a thank you from her are plenty for him. FALLING IN LOVE RIGHT AWAY Besides not understanding men, there is another reason women tend to give too much. Sometimes a woman will see STAGE ONE: ATTRACTION / 45 something or even imagine something about a man that triggers a surge of confidence in her. She feels, This is the man of my dreams; he is the one for me; he is perfect for me. It is as though she falls under a spell. In this state she responds to him as if she were already getting everything she could ever want. She is lovingly responsive and receptive to whatever he does. The excitement certainly brings out the best in her and makes her very attractive, but it can also prevent him from continuing to feel a strong attraction for her. When a woman falls in love, she may feel as if she is already getting everything she could ever want. She feels so satisfied by his presence that she begins to think, He is so wonderful. What can I do to be worthy of him? How can I earn this love? What should I do for him? How can I make sure he likes me? How can I be most attractive to him? These kinds of thoughts then lead to action. As she proceeds to pursue him, he becomes less interested in her. A wise woman approaches the situation differently. Even if she does fall in love, she is careful to remember that even though it feels as if she were in an exclusive relationship with her ideal partner, she is not. Even if he has the potential to be the man of her dreams, he is not yet. She needs to remember that they are in stage one. He is not even exclusive with her (stage three), nor does she really know him (stage four), and they definitely are not engaged to be married (stage five). It is vitally important for a woman to remember what stage their relationship is in and respond appropriately to that stage. Having a clear awareness of the stages of dating helps us to keep this balanced perspective. 4 Stage Two: Uncertainty When someone is more special to us than others, we automatically move into stage two, uncertainty. When we begin to feel that we would really like to get to know someone and have an exclusive relationship, it is quite natural suddenly to shift and not feel so sure. For some that shift is like an earthquake and for others it is a mild tremor. Sometimes the size of the shift or the suddenness with which it occurs is a signal that this person has good potential. We could actually be dating our soul mate, but in stage two of dating we may not know it. Whether the person is wrong or right, in stage two the experience is uncertainty. Unfortunately, many singles do not recognize this as a necessary stage and mistakenly assume that if they are not certain, this must not be the right person for them. They think that if they have found the right person, the gates of heaven should open and bells should ring. 46 STAGE TWO: UNCERTAINTY / 47 You could actually be dating your soul mate, but in stage two of dating you may not know it. When a man moves into stage two, he can easily make the mistake of thinking, If I am not sure, then I should keep looking around and testing. He doesn’t realize how this tendency can prevent him from ever finding the confidence that he is with the right person. Looking around and dating many women may be fine for stage one, but in stage two this tendency is counterproductive. This is the time for a man to temporarily stop dating others and to start focusing his attention on his special partner. Stage one is a time to meet and get to know a variety of people; stage two is the time to focus on one. This is the time to make a decision to give the relationship a chance. WHEN THE GRASS LOOKS GREENER ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE FENCE During this stage of uncertainty, the grass temporarily looks greener on the other side of the fence. For a man, other women may begin to seem more appealing. Men tend to have a visual picture of their perfect mate, but very rarely is that picture ever correct. It is a fantasy picture of a man’s ideal partner. Not until he begins to experience real bonding with a woman in a way that makes him feel successful will the power of that picture weaken and be replaced by a real person. As long as a man has not experienced the reality of making a woman happy, he will compare her with a fantasy picture. He may begin to question his feelings: “I like her, but she is not my picture.” As a man continues to know a real woman and feel a real bond of desire, affection, and interest, 48 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. then his need for his partner to look like his fantasy picture subsides. The spell is broken when his heart opens and he feels a special connection with his partner. This process takes time, even if he is with the right person. As long as a man has not experienced the reality of making a woman happy, he will hold a fantasy picture. In stage two, even if the grass on the other side of the fence begins to look greener, the man’s new objective is to look and dig a little deeper on his side of the fence, to stop looking at the grass and dig for the gold. He may or may not find it, but he will never find it if he doesn’t start digging. To dig deeper he needs to ask himself these questions: • Could I possibly be the right man for her? • Could I possibly have what it takes to make her happy? • Do I care for her? • Do I want to make her happy? • Does her happiness make me happy? • Do I miss her when I am away from her? When, over time, a man discovers an affirmative answer to each of these questions, then he is ready to move on to an exclusive relationship. WHY MEN BEGIN TO DOUBT When a man does not understand Venusians, he can make the mistake of thinking he can’t make a woman happy. In reality he may have the ability, but because he misinterprets the way she thinks and feels he reaches a faulty conclusion. STAGE TWO: UNCERTAINTY / 49 For example, on a date while driving through an expensive neighborhood, a woman might say, “Oh, look at that beautiful house; I’ll bet they have a swimming pool. Oh, I love swimming pools.” She is simply sharing herself, but his reaction may be something like, Wow, this woman has expensive tastes; I don’t know if I could keep her happy. He mistakenly assumes that because the thought of a mansion and a swimming pool makes her happy, he will have to provide it all for her to be happy. At this point, he starts to think that she may be the wrong person for him to pursue. In stage two, it is very important for the man to do little things for the woman so he can repeatedly test and experience the idea that he has the power to make her happy. A man bonds with a woman through being successful in providing for her happiness, comfort, and fulfillment. His doubts are dispelled not primarily by what she does for him, but by how she responds to what he does for her. A man’s doubts are dispelled not primarily by what a woman does for him, but by how she responds to what he does for her. Traditionally, this is why men have been the ones who provide on a date. The man gets the woman’s number, the man calls her up, the man asks her out, the man comes up with a plan, the man picks her up, the man opens and shuts the car door, the man drives and navigates, the man buys the tickets, the man escorts the woman to her seat, the man takes responsibility for her comfort and happiness, the man pays the check. The man gives and the woman graciously receives. These little things that a man provides on a date give him a chance to test the waters and to see how much he likes 50 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. making this woman happy. She also gets to taste how it feels to receive his support. In this way, he bonds with her and she bonds with him. In the next stage, exclusivity, after they have bonded, she can begin sharing the expenses and doing little things for him as well, but on a romantic date he should be the main provider. Without an understanding of these stages, a man sometimes gets stuck in uncertainty. Instead of testing to see if he can make a woman happy and win her over, he begins to question whether she can give him what he wants. When a man focuses on what he wants, he is sure to miss the perfect woman for him. When he focuses on the question, “Am I the right man for her?” then he will find clarity to either move on to exclusivity or end the relationship and start again with someone else. When a man focuses on what he wants, he is sure to miss the perfect woman for him. WHEN WOMEN ARE UNCERTAIN When a woman moves into stage two and feels uncertain, she reacts differently from a man. While a man tends to question whether he wants to pursue a relationship, a woman tends to question where the relationship is going. Quite often, she senses the man pulling away. To find reassurance, she makes one of two common mistakes. Either she starts asking questions about the relationship, or she may try to win him over. Both of these approaches can push him away or prevent him from feeling confident that he is the right guy for her. STAGE TWO: UNCERTAINTY / 51 While a man tends to question whether he wants to pursue a relationship, a woman tends to question where the relationship is going. In the uncertainty stage, when a woman doesn’t understand a man, she may easily begin to panic. During the attraction stage he was coming on so strong, and now he is not. If she doesn’t understand the stage of uncertainty, a host of feelings may arise. These are some common reactions. WHAT A WOMAN ASKS • Did I do something wrong? • Is there someone else? • Does he still care? • Will he call? • Am I doing the right things? • Am I doing enough? • What can I do to regain his attention, interest, affection, and desire? Unfortunately, all of these questions lure her in the wrong direction; she begins to pursue him. When a man stops pursuing, a woman’s task is to resist the enormous urge to find out what has happened or to do something about it. For a woman, the stage of uncertainty should be a time to reflect on what she is getting from the man, not on what she could get. This is a time for the woman to stay open to his future advances, but more important, it is a time to fill up her life with the support of friends. This is a time to test whether he is really the right person for an exclusive relationship. 52 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. When a man stops pursuing, a woman’s task is to resist the enormous urge to find out what has happened or to do something about it. It is in this stage that the old saying “Absence makes the heart grow fonder” applies. If he pulls away, she should gracefully allow him take his distance. A woman needs to remember that men are like rubber bands. They pull away. If you don’t run after them, they will spring back. After he springs back a few times, he will have the certainty that she is the one with whom he would like to pursue a steady or exclusive relationship. By giving the man the space to pull away and then once again become more interested, a woman also gets to know if this man is the one with whom she would like to have an exclusive relationship. If she can fill up her life with the support of friends and family and she still misses him, it is a good sign. HOW TO AVOID PURSUING TOO MUCH In the uncertainty stage, both men and women must be careful not to react to their partner’s uncertainty by pursuing too much. A man who doesn’t take this time to pull back can smother a woman by his insistent pursuit of her with promises of love. When a woman says no to his advances, he must be careful to pursue gently and respectfully. Persistence is good, but it must be done in a nondemanding manner. Trying to make her feel guilty for not spending more time with him can be a real turnoff. As a result, she can build a wall of resistance that prevents her from discovering that she may want to have an exclusive, steady relationship with him. STAGE TWO: UNCERTAINTY / 53 If a woman’s reaction to uncertainty is to pursue a man, it can actually prevent him from moving through his uncertainty to discover whether he wants to invest in a relationship or not. This is why, traditionally, women don’t call men. The wise woman waits for him to pursue her. Yet there is a time for a woman to call. It is foolish to wait passively. A wise woman can create the opportunity for a man to pursue her. WHAT TO DO WHEN HE DOESN’T CALL If, in the uncertainty stage, a man does not call for a while, it is a good idea for the woman to give him a call but not to pursue him or tell him how she feels about being ignored. Instead she can casually let him know that all is well. She can call just to say hi, to thank him for something, or to ask a question that he has some expertise about. It is just a short, friendly sounding call, so he clearly gets the message that she is not harboring any resentment because he didn’t call. The worst thing she can do is to call him and interrogate him about his feelings about her and the relationship. The worst thing a woman can do is to call a man and interrogate him about his feelings about her and the relationship. Sometimes when a man is in stage two he temporarily forgets about a woman. Two days, two weeks, or even two months can pass by in a flash, and then suddenly he remembers how much he likes a woman. He thinks about calling but anticipates that he will be scolded or rejected for taking so long to call. So he decides to not call and moves on. If he has received a friendly call, then he gets the clear message 54 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. that he is not in trouble. This then frees him to consider pursuing her again. Just as time slows down for women in uncertainty, time can speed up for a man. When a woman does not understand men, it is easy to conclude that a man is a real jerk if he doesn’t call her. This is not really the case at all. There are many reasons a man doesn’t call. With a more complete understanding of the way men think and feel, a woman can assess a man’s instinctive behavior and not take it so personally. In Chapters 15 and 16 we will explore in much greater detail why men don’t call and how a woman can call a man without turning him off. THE PRESSURE TO GIVE BACK When a man comes on strong in stage one and then pulls back in stage two, a woman sometimes feels pressure to give back sexually. She has received so much that she feels obligated to return the favor. She hopes that by responding in a sexual manner and fulfilling his desires, she will regain his interest. By giving more of herself than she is ready to give, however, she can actually sabotage a relationship. More is not always better. A woman can best move through the stage of uncertainty if she can enjoy a man’s advances without feeling obligated. If she has not been used to feeling pursued and romanced, then she may feel even more obligated. When people are starving and they don’t have any money to buy food, then quite naturally they might feel, “I will give you anything for this food.” Likewise, when a woman feels loved and adored, STAGE TWO: UNCERTAINTY / 55 she might feel, “I will give anything for this to continue.” This attitude is unhealthy. A woman needs to understand that by receiving and responding in a warm and friendly way to a man’s romantic gestures she is already giving back to him. This basic understanding is crucial, and women today are missing it. Quite often a woman feels that she is not giving enough in return, and then she feels obligated to give more. When she senses that the man wants more, instead of just being flattered by his desires, she sabotages the dating ritual by feeling the pressure of obligation and giving in to being more physically intimate than is appropriate to their relationship. Instead of letting him continue to please her, she shifts to trying to please him. Inevitably her position is compromised and he loses interest. How Sharon Felt Obligated Sharon described it this way: “At first Kevin was so wonderful. He listened to everything I said. He was such a gentleman. I loved everything he said. He was interesting and funny. We had such a good time. Then, after an evening of passion, everything stopped.” Sharon felt embarrassed. She thought they were soul mates destined to get married, but Kevin was just in stage one, attraction. He was still dating other women as well. Sharon said, “It hurts so much, I’d rather not try again. I don’t need a man that much.” After learning about men, however, Sharon realized how she had misinterpreted the signals. His intense attentiveness had meant to her that he must have been her soul mate. The truth is that they had only known each other for a few days. Although she thought they were going to be exclusive, they hadn’t even gone through the uncertainty stage. 56 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. After taking a Mars/Venus workshop, Sharon confided that she felt really stupid. She said, “Sure he said he loved me. But there’s nothing wrong with that. He just didn’t love me enough to stay. The real reason I feel hurt is that we had sex and then he rejected me. If we hadn’t gone all the way sexually and we had just kissed and touched, than his rejection would not hurt so much. If we had just dated for a few weeks and then he didn’t want to pursue a relationship it would have been fine.” At a certain point, Kevin was being so wonderful that Sharon started feeling obligated to give him everything he wanted. After all, he was giving her what she wanted; it seemed only fair for her to return the favor. But was he really giving her everything she wanted? Sharon wanted to get married. Was he giving her that? She said, “I want to get married. When a man gives me all of what I want then I will give him all of what he wants. Until my wedding night, I am remembering that I am not yet married.” Sharon realized that she didn’t have to give up dating men because it hurt too much. She could just be more discerning in how far to go sexually. Sharon learned that physical intimacy doesn’t have to be all or nothing. It can slowly increase over time. Physical intimacy doesn’t have to be all or nothing. By reaching this conclusion, Sharon was able to complete her relationship with Kevin. She didn’t feel like a victim but instead was grateful for the insight. She now clearly saw how she had set herself up to feel hurt. She forgave Kevin and wished him well. This lifted her spirits and she went back to dating with a new approach. STAGE TWO: UNCERTAINTY / 57 She felt her need for a man but didn’t feel any hurry to pursue a more intimate relationship. Instead of giving up dating men, she gave up feeling obligated. She had a good time flirting a lot and dating until the right guy came along. When they became exclusive, she practiced having sex without going all the way. Eventually they got married, but this time she waited until she was ready to be fully physically intimate. NEED AND OBLIGATION Sharon’s story illustrates a very important point. Quite often a woman denies her feelings of need for a man because she doesn’t want to feel obligated. But by clearly realizing that she is under no obligation, she can begin to freely flirt with men and enjoy receiving what men can offer. She can feel her needs without feeling obligated. The more receptive and responsive she becomes, the more attractive she will be to the kind of man who will want to marry her. By clearly realizing that she is under no obligation, a woman can begin to freely flirt with men and enjoy receiving what men can offer. When a woman has a tendency to feel obligated in response to a man’s advances, it prevents her from being receptive. Younger women, particularly, feel a pressure not to let a man pay on a date so that they don’t feel obligated to have sex. This is the woman’s way of saying that he should not get his hopes up. She senses his desires and wants him not to get the wrong idea. The problem with this approach is that he will get the idea that she is not receptive at all and lose interest. By deny58 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. ing the part of her that needs a man’s affections, she will decrease her own ability to feel attractive and attracted. Just because a woman enjoys a man’s gifts does not in any way obligate her to give more than a smile or a thank you. Women commonly confuse a man’s hope that he will “get lucky” with the expectation that she should be physically intimate with him. Just because a woman enjoys a man’s gifts does not in any way obligate her to give more than a smile or a thank you. Most men do not expect a woman to be physically intimate; they just hope to get lucky. They don’t think, Well, I paid for dinner, so she should have sex with me. Still, sometimes a woman will refuse to let a man pay for dinner because she doesn’t want him to get the wrong idea. This is insulting not only to him but to herself as well. If she feels that a man is trying to buy her sexual favors, then why go out with him at all? THE DESIRE FOR INTIMACY IS INNOCENT It is innocent for a man to want to be intimate physically and it is just as innocent for a woman to feel swept off her feet by a man’s strong interest and passion. While most men only hope to get lucky, there are some who expect it. They have had sex with women who are just looking for a good time, and so they expect this from all women. They expect it because they see it on TV, in the movies, and in magazines, and they assume that all women are just as fast as men. Without an understanding of what it takes to make a relationship work, it appears that fast sex is a heavSTAGE TWO: UNCERTAINTY / 59 enly antidote for a frustrated love life. Nothing could be further from the truth. By clearly understanding the wisdom of going slowly and moving through the five stages of dating, both men and woman will enjoy the dating process more and eventually find true love. When a man is used to fast women and then he meets a woman who wants to go slowly, it is normal for him to grumble a bit. If, however, there is more than just physical chemistry between them, he will respect her wishes and go slowly. Instead of refusing to be receptive to all his advances, a woman should just politely and firmly say no to the sexual part if she is not yet ready. If he can respect her, then he is worthy of her. If he cannot and stays annoyed, then he is just not ready to be in a serious relationship and she does herself and him a favor by rejecting him. If a woman is not ready she can still be polite and firmly say no to a man’s sexual advances. When a man wants to be more physically intimate and a woman doesn’t know how to say no because she doesn’t want to hurt his feelings, she needs to remember that she is not obligated in any way. All he really needs is to feel successful in fulfilling her and to hope that one day it might happen. She can simply say, “I like this, but I am not ready for more. This is as far as I go for now.” Saying no to sex doesn’t mean that a couple should have no sexual intimacy. Men need physical intimacy in order to open up and feel their love and desire, and to feel committed. Just as women are stimulated by a man’s romantic interest and good conversation, men are stimulated by a woman’s sexual responsiveness. To be stimulated, however, they don’t have to go all the way. 60 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. FOUR DEGREES OF PHYSICAL INTIMACY A woman can say yes to different degrees of sex without having to go all the way. This is a very important insight, because to avoid intercourse, many woman will not be physically affectionate or sexual at all. For a woman to feel comfortable being physically intimate, she needs to share a clear picture of how far she wants to go, and she must get a clear message from the man that he will respect what she wants. It can be very uncomfortable or difficult for a woman to say no to a man when she is in the heat of arousal. When she is kissing him and he wants to go further, she doesn’t always want to be saying no. To facilitate clear conversation with a man about sex, baseball can provide some helpful examples. Getting on First Base There are basically four degrees of sexual or physical intimacy. As in the game of baseball, each degree can be likened to getting onto another base. Getting on first base has to do with kissing and affection. At first, people casually or unintentionally touch. They may spend many minutes gazing into each other’s eyes while sharing a meal together. Then he holds her hand, puts his arm around her, or gives her a kiss. Gradually their kissing becomes more lengthy and passionate. As they get to know each other, he feels very comfortable putting his arm around her and holding hands in private and in public. In private they may spend hours cuddled up together or passionately kissing and pressing their bodies together. Although there is a lot of passion, they purposefully restrict the stimulation to lots of kissing, cuddling, embracing, and rolling around and alternately lying on each other. STAGE TWO: UNCERTAINTY / 61 Getting on Second Base Second base is heavy petting. In this stage they begin to stimulate their more erogenous zones. There are basically three zones of exploration. The first zone is from the neck and shoulders up, plus arms, hands, and feet. The second is from the waist up and the third is from the waist down. Second base includes exploration in zones one and two. Slowly they will begin to explore and touch each other. At first this exploration is done with clothes on, then with less clothing on, and then with nothing on. Getting on Third Base Third base is the full stimulation of the genitals without intercourse. It includes touching, caressing, and stimulating each other in all three zones. Although the man does not penetrate the woman through intercourse, they give each other pleasure through mutual stimulation. They both eventually enjoy the orgasmic bliss of two souls uniting in love. The woman commonly makes the mistake of rushing to third base to satisfy the man because she can feel his longing and desire. This is a mistake. Ideally, before she gives him an orgasm, she needs to first be open and receptive to having her own orgasm. When she also feels her longing to have an orgasm and she experiences one, then by giving him an orgasm she is not giving too much or going too far. In this sense, by listening to her own body she can know how far to go. Sliding into Home Base The fourth base or home base is intercourse. 62 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. With a clear understanding of the four bases, a woman can definitely and accurately communicate to a man how far she is willing to go. This clarity allows her to move from feeling uncertain to getting more involved with a man. How far the woman goes should always be her choice. To make this choice she needs to be sure that her willingness is not coming from a place of obligation or sympathy for the man’s need, or from a rebelliousness to authority. She needs to listen within herself to determine when she is ready. A clearer understanding of the five stages of dating will help both her and him to understand why waiting is so important. HOW TO SAY NO Rachel had no problem saying no. She chose to stay a virgin until her wedding night, when she was twenty-eight years old. At a certain point while dating, as she started to feel the pressures building to be more physically intimate, she would simply say, “Look, I just want you to know I am a virgin and I plan to stay that way till I get married. I like kissing and touching, but that is all.” By establishing her limits she then felt free to open up and be more physically intimate as she and the man she was dating also became more emotionally and mentally intimate. Andrea had a different approach. After a kiss became very steamy, she would say clearly, “I don’t want to go any further. I am not ready. I need more time.” As time passed, she would let a man know when she was ready to go a little further. Cathy would just say very quickly, in a friendly tone, “No, I don’t want to do that. I am not ready. I just want to kiss.” The best approach is always to be clear and definite. Being vague doesn’t work. Many men hear a clear invitation to STAGE TWO: UNCERTAINTY / 63 keep advancing when a woman says, “I don’t know. Maybe we should wait.” He will continue until he gets a clear no. Just as a man needs to be respectful of a woman’s boundaries, a woman also needs to consider the messages she is giving. When a man is touching a woman, moving his hand away to say no is generally misinterpreted as “Not yet; I am not ready.” If she means “Don’t do that again tonight,” then she needs to say that with words. If he doesn’t respect that first no, then she needs to immediately get up and leave. She can be polite and also be clear about setting that boundary. She could just get up and say, “I really like you, but I am not ready for this.” Then she should go home, or at least to another room. WHEN WAITING TO GET INVOLVED IS A MISTAKE Without a clear understanding of how to say no and set limits on how much sexual intimacy she is ready to share, a woman may not bother dating until she meets a man that she doesn’t have to say no to. She waits to meet Mr. Perfect. She decides to refuse dates and not flirt until she feels right away that a man is right for her. Mary shared these feelings: “For me the most difficult part of breaking up is knowing that I will have to once again undress in front of another man.” Although she was just being funny, she had given up. Mary didn’t feel comfortable saying no or yes to a man’s advances, so she decided that she was going to wait to get involved. She said, “I just can’t keep getting involved with the wrong men. From now on I am not going to date a man unless I know he is right for me.” This expectation is totally unrealistic. With this attitude, 64 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Mary could wait her whole life and stay single. Knowing that a partner is right happens only in stage four, the intimacy stage; it is totally unrealistic to make that a prerequisite. In stage two, it is perfectly normal to question whether a partner is right for you. At a certain point in the uncertainty stage, if you have been careful not to pursue other relationships, both the man and woman will be ready to move on to having an exclusive relationship. Either you become more interested in getting to know each other or you don’t. Even though you may not be sure, if a part of you wants to pursue the relationship and if you want to prepare yourself to know for sure, then it is time to move on to stage three and have an exclusive relationship. 5 Stage Three: Exclusivity When we are able to feel that our dating partner has the potential to be a mate, or if we just feel that we want to get to know the person better and give the relationship a chance, we are ready to move into stage three, exclusivity. In this stage, we make a commitment to focus on having a primary romantic relationship and avoid nurturing any romantic relationships on the side. In stage three, we build a foundation that allows us to open our hearts and truly love someone. Before this stage, we are just reacting to the anticipation of getting what we need and testing to see if we want to get involved. Now we actually have a chance to give freely and fully and experience getting what we need in return. 65 66 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Having a primary romantic relationship and avoiding any romantic relationships on the side will build the foundation for truly loving someone. Most dating couples in this stage unknowingly sabotage this opportunity to experience the best of their partners and themselves. As soon as they become exclusive, they relax and no longer put their best foot forward. This is a big mistake. In this stage, we must make a deliberate effort to keep doing the little romantic things that allowed us to move successfully through the first and second stages. After a couple become exclusive, they often become too comfortable and begin to take each other for granted. The man stops pursuing the woman because he feels he has won her over, and the woman tends to expect more, since they are now exclusive. This creates predictable problems that can all be avoided. WHEN THE PURSUIT IS OVER A man may do everything to win a woman over, but once he has passed the finish line, he turns off his engine, parks his car, and celebrates. In stage three, exclusivity, he mistakenly assumes the pursuit is over. Somebody needs to tell him that the race is not over. He has only just shifted into third gear. He still hasn’t reached his top speed. He still has fourth and fifth gears. To move beyond third gear, he needs to focus on being the best partner he can be and continue to lead the relationship. Most men think that you do the little romantic things only until a woman accepts you and then you can relax. A man does not instinctively realize that it is his romantic attention STAGE THREE: EXCLUSIVITY / 67 that fuels a woman’s attraction for him. If a man relaxes too much, a woman will not get the fuel she needs to continue responding to him the way she did. A man needs to remember that even though they are exclusive, the pursuit is not over. Without an understanding of the stages ahead, he also begins to run out of fuel. By clearly keeping his goal in mind, he will find the energy and intention necessary to do his best. This effort is similar to his lifting weights or going the extra mile to make a project at work successful. By putting forth the effort, he will bring out the best in a woman. Her warm and friendly responses will give him the fuel to keep going. MARTIAN EFFICIENCY On Mars, they instinctively try to be efficient. Their motto is, Never do anything you don’t have to do. If someone else will do it, then relax. Save your energy for the emergency. Put off what doesn’t have to be done so that you can do what has to be done. Get from point A to point B as quickly as possible. Do less and accomplish more. Invest your resources so that you will not have to work later. These are all Martian tendencies. Why is it that men tend to wait till the last minute to do just about anything? It is because they feel that if they wait long enough, quite often either the problem goes away or someone else solves it for them. If that doesn’t occur, then the problem becomes necessary to solve, and so the man dedicates the time and energy to do it. To make sure they don’t waste energy, men automatically prioritize. Unless something gets to the top of the list, it just doesn’t get done. They wait to dedicate their energy to something until they clearly know that it is necessary. Men do what they believe is required of them. The problem is that 68 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. they don’t necessarily know what is required, particularly when it comes to romantic relationships. This is why it is crucial for a man to understand women. Otherwise he just doesn’t know what is required to make a relationship work. When he assumes he is doing enough and the woman is not happy, he quickly gives up and loses his attraction because he thinks either that something is wrong with her or that she is the wrong partner for him. It may just be that he has the wrong approach. KEEPING THE EDGE Without an understanding of the basic strategy of stage three, a man will mistakenly assume that he has done all that is required of him to win his partner over. Now he thinks he can relax and live off the interest from his original investment. By relaxing in this manner, he loses his momentum and the relationship ceases to bring out the best in him and his partner. He becomes increasingly passive in the relationship and loses his edge. This can happen in any area of a man’s life. It clearly happens all the time in the world of work. After becoming successful, big companies lose their competitive edge. They become too comfortable and stop researching innovative ways to stay ahead of the competition. They become too soft and complacent. They lose the power and good fortune that come from hard work, effort, sacrifice, planning, researching, and taking reasonable risks. To keep the edge, to maintain their sharpness of focus, they need to sustain those behaviors that made them number one. By putting forth his best effort, a man eventually experiences his edge. He reaches the limit of his potential. The result of reaching to express all that he can be is greater creSTAGE THREE: EXCLUSIVITY / 69 ativity. The automatic consequence of pushing to his limit is more power. He gains the power and creativity to do more, be more, and achieve more. By fully expressing his potential, he allows that potential to expand and increase. Now to reach his new limits he must do more. If he does not utilize this opportunity to develop and express increased power and creativity, he loses the edge. Only by continuing to express his potential as it grows can a man keep his edge. This same dynamic is particularly true in stage three of dating. By continuing to take the time to research what a woman might like and put forth the effort to plan and deliver a romantic date, a man ensures the growth of affection and interest in his relationship. He discovers how much more a relationship has to offer. He finds a confident, purposeful, and responsible part of himself he did not know. He experiences a self-assured, receptive, and responsive part of his partner he could not have known. By sustaining his edge in his relationship, he creates the opportunity for real love to spring forth. A RELATIONSHIP IS LIKE AN INVESTMENT A man automatically looks at a relationship like an investment. He puts his energy in and hopes to get something out of it. This is why he takes time to pick the right person for himself. It would be foolish to invest everything in the wrong investment. Once a man picks a partner with whom to be exclusive, he mistakenly assumes that he now has made the investment. A man needs to have a more realistic perspective. In stage three, he is still just earning the capital to invest. In stage four, he picks the investment, and in stage five he invests it. When he makes it through all five stages, then he has 70 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. invested successfully in his relationship. He can live out the rest of his life benefiting from his deliberate efforts and the hard work often required to move through the five stages. In stage three, a man needs to realize that much more will be required of him, but not more than he can do. His best is good enough. As he gradually grows and can give more, his partner can put forth more of herself in a healthy manner. As they gradually prepare themselves in this way to experience the growth of true intimacy in the next stage, a man’s orientation toward the relationship has a chance to change. HOW A MAN’S EXPERIENCE CHANGES By continuing to put his best foot forward, a man experiences that he has the power to bring out the best of his partner. He also likes doing it. Although it requires effort and attention, he is strengthened by it. When a man feels confident and purposeful, he enjoys exerting himself. Just as working out and exercising his muscles will make him stronger and will eventually feel good, a man finds that he has a tremendous power to provide in stage three. The relationship muscles he builds in stage three give him the strength to move through stages four and five. By deliberately putting forth his energy and attention to fulfill a woman’s romantic needs long after a woman has accepted him, a man trains himself to experience that the little romantic gestures of dating are not just to win a woman over but are actually required and necessary to sustain her responsiveness. Instead of planning a date because he knows she will be impressed, he plans a date because it nurtures the woman he cares for and that makes him feel good. As he experiences repeated success in stage three, giving in romantic ways becomes automatic for him. STAGE THREE: EXCLUSIVITY / 71 Giving still requires effort and risk, but the reward makes it all worthwhile. His reward is the pleasure and pride he feels when he succeeds in making his partner happy. HOW MEN CHANGE Without an understanding of the importance of continuing to make romantic gestures, a man will unknowingly stop doing the very things that made him so attractive in the beginning. Let’s look at a few examples of how men change. Johnny and His Plans In the beginning of their relationship, Johnny used to plan dates in advance. He would research what was happening, get ideas, and suggest his plans to his girlfriend, Vanessa. She was generally very pleased by his ideas and they had many wonderful dates. After they became exclusive, everything quickly changed. Johnny stopped planning dates in advance. He waited till Friday and would then ask Vanessa what she wanted to do. Since they had less time to plan, they started doing more casual things, like renting a video and making popcorn. There was nothing wrong with this. After all, not every date has to be special. Variety is good. For a while, Vanessa and Johnny had a good time not going out. But as this continued, they gradually started to lose interest in each other. After taking a Mars/Venus dating workshop, Johnny realized what had happened. He realized that he had stopped planning dates. In the workshop, he learned that women love it when men plan dates. Women love a man with a plan, and Johnny had stopped planning. He didn’t even notice the change. He stopped making plans because his initial reason and motivation for planning were gone. 72 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. In the beginning of the relationship, he would plan in advance to make sure he would get a date. He didn’t want Vanessa to book up her weekend, so he would plan things with her way in advance. When it was clear that they would be exclusive, she naturally left her weekends open to be with him. He then had no reason to plan and make dates in advance. Johnny learned a new reason to plan in advance. When he planned in advance, not only did Vanessa feel more provided for and special, but she also had a week to think about the date and look forward to it. Most men don’t realize how important that is to a woman. She loves to look ahead, to prepare, to get ready, and to talk about it with her friends. By learning about women, Johnny was once again motivated to plan in advance. He said this one change put the juice back into his relationship. Why Bob Stopped Talking For several dates, Bob was very talkative with Sarah. He talked about his job, his goals, his values, his parents, his brothers and sisters, his past, his spiritual beliefs, his interest in sports, his daily experiences, and his reactions to the news, and he talked about his past as it related to different experiences that he was having. He was a dream partner. Women love men to share the way they think and feel about things. They had many wonderful conversations. When they moved into stage three, Sarah was expecting things to stay the same and even get better, but the opposite happened. Bob stopped talking as much. At first, she thought he was probably distracted by some problem at work, but eventually she concluded that he was just losing interest in her. STAGE THREE: EXCLUSIVITY / 73 Sarah suggested that for fun they take a Mars/Venus workshop. She thought that if they took a class together on communication, she would understand what to do. After the workshop, everything changed. She heard that statistically men talk more on the third date than any other date in their whole relationship. She was relieved to recognize that Bob’s lack of interest in talking to her was not about her or their relationship at all, but was quite ordinary. Men may talk a lot in the beginning of the relationship because, in a sense, they are on a job interview. They are giving their date a verbal résumé of who they are by sharing what they think, feel, and value. Once a man gets the job and he is exclusive, a shift takes place because there is no longer any reason to keep talking. Talking has served its purpose. Now that they know each other, they can get on to being and doing things together. Men talk most on the third date because it is after their third date that they decide to be exclusive. As in baseball, it is generally three strikes and a man either gets on base or is out. On Mars, talking is not an end in itself. Men generally don’t call each other up and say, “Let’s go to lunch and just talk.” If they do, it is because they have something in particular that’s pressing to talk about. When invited to lunch to talk, a man will ask, “What’s up?” or “What is it that you want to talk about?” Women, on the other hand, will call each other up and say, “Let’s have lunch.” They don’t have to have a specific reason to talk. There are not specific topics to discuss or pressing problems to solve. They don’t even bother asking. They know lunch means talking about whatever. Bob, like many men, had stopped talking because he had no reason to talk. He had fully introduced himself and he had gotten the job. After taking the seminar, he realized that 74 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. in stage three he needed to keep doing the things he did to win her over. One of the most important things was to keep talking as he had talked on the first few dates. Why Jerry Stopped Listening Quite often in the third stage, some men make the mistake of not listening to or looking at their date as much. Stephanie complained, “Once we started going steady, Jerry stopped listening. I could be talking and he would just look away. I couldn’t believe it.” Stephanie assumed that he was another jerk who came on strong and then became passively interested. Jerry, like many men, made the mistake of relaxing too much in stage three. He had no idea that he was turning Stephanie off. As a result, she felt offended and ended their relationship. It was important for Stephanie to understand why this happened or her opinion of men would stay jaded. In a Mars/Venus workshop she learned how she had misinterpreted Jerry’s feelings. While doing business, a man will always focus directly on the person talking to him, but in a relaxed social setting this tendency changes. When two best friends have lunch together, they are not in any way offended if one looks away. Particularly in a relaxed social setting, a man feels most comfortable looking around while a person is talking. This is why bars always have a TV going. Men don’t feel offended at all when the person to whom they are talking is watching and listening to a game at the same time. After Stephanie learned more about Martian customs, her feelings about men began to soften. She learned that Jerry had stopped doing a lot of the things he used to do because he was convinced that he wanted to pursue a relationship with her. STAGE THREE: EXCLUSIVITY / 75 In the beginning, he looked directly at her because he was still doing business. He listened intently to get to know her because he was gathering information to make the decision. He focused on her to figure out if he wanted to be with her. Once he made the decision that she was the one, the problem had been solved; he could now relax and look away while she talked. By not understanding what women enjoy most in a man, Jerry had sabotaged his relationship. Why Ross Stopped Giving Compliments Naomi complained, “After four or five dates, Ross stopped giving me compliments. After he let me know that he wanted to see only me, his affection just turned off. I thought we were really getting close. I couldn’t understand why, if he liked me so much, he would stop complimenting me. After a while I was so annoyed that I refused to date him anymore. He became so stingy with his affection.” Many men in stage three will automatically stop complimenting their partner. A man mistakenly assumes that because he is being exclusive, she doesn’t need to hear his compliments anymore. He thinks the fact that he wants to be only with her is already making a statement that she is more special than other women. From a man’s point of view, giving compliments is a way to communicate the message that he is attracted to a woman, that he finds her attractive. Once he clearly believes that she understands this message, then he may no longer feel the need to give more compliments. From his perspective, there is no point to it. He thinks, “Well, we are going steady; she should know that I think she is pretty.” Because Ross made this simple mistake over and over again, his relationships never progressed beyond the third stage of dating. 76 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Tom and His Comfort Zone Louise questioned, “Why is it that we keep doing the same things? In the beginning our dates were fun and interesting, but now Tom just wants to do the same things over and over.” Louise didn’t realize that Martians are creatures of habit in many ways. When they find a formula that works, they just keep doing it over and over. Their thinking is, Why risk failure by changing things when you have a surefire formula for success? Quite often, as soon as a man reaches stage three, he finds his comfort zone. He will tend to repeat the things he has done to get there, and not try new things. If he has taken her to a particular restaurant and she liked it, then he will continue to go back. He does not realize that one of the main reasons she liked it was that it was new and different. Women like variety. They like to try new things and have new experiences. By continuing to take risks and try new things, a man is assured of successfully moving through stage three. Jose Stopped Offering to Help Maria complained, “As soon as we started being exclusive, Jose stopped offering to help me do things. He would come over to my apartment and watch TV while I was making dinner. In the beginning, he would always offer to help. Then, I couldn’t believe it: He started treating me like a servant. He expected me to do everything for him.” Before they were exclusive, Jose wanted to let Maria know that he was happy to help her with anything. To make sure she knew his intentions, he offered to help with washing the car, carrying bags, moving boxes, driving her places, making dinner, and fixing things around the house. Then he stopped. Maria mistakenly assumed that he now expected her to STAGE THREE: EXCLUSIVITY / 77 return the favors he had given her, to help him. She was fine with this for a while. Women are always happy to give back what they feel they have received. But after a while she became very resentful. She was doing things for him and he was doing nothing for her. He had stopped offering to help. Maria didn’t understand the real reason Jose stopped offering his help. He assumed that by now she would know that he was happy to help. Now that they were closer, he mistakenly thought that if she wanted his help she would ask for it. When she didn’t ask, he just assumed that he was giving enough and she didn’t want any more. In stage three, a man should remember that a woman feels most loved and supported when he offers to be of assistance. It is most romantic for a woman when a man anticipates her needs and offers to help. Even if she doesn’t need his help at the time, she will feel supported just because he offered. It is most romantic for a woman when a man anticipates her needs and offers to help. While the wise man continues to offer his support, a wise woman practices asking for support. No matter how perfect a man is, he is still from Mars. Even if he is deeply in love with a woman, he will still not instinctively know what a woman really needs or when he should offer to help. He could be completely willing but just not know what he should be offering or when he should be offering it. A WOMAN’S GREATEST CHALLENGE In stage three, a woman’s greatest challenge is to practice the art of asking for support. Women are taught to be desirable, but not to desire. It is hard for them to ask for more. The 78 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. biggest mistake a woman makes in stage three is to assume that now a man will do things without her having to ask. Women are taught to be desirable but not to desire. In this stage, a woman must break through this limiting conditioning to discover that she is actually more desirable when she expresses her desires. A woman becomes more attractive when a man clearly knows what she wants. He can then feel confident that he can fulfill her. If she just waits for him to know the right things, she may be waiting her whole life. WHEN TO ASK FOR SUPPORT The best time to ask for support is when a man stops offering it. This simple truth can be very confusing to women. When a man stops offering his support, a woman mistakenly assumes that this is the worst time to ask. Like Maria, a woman doesn’t realize that a man may be very willing to help but is waiting to be asked. Instead of asking for support, she quietly does something herself or postpones her needs. Although making sacrifices is a part of a relationship, women tend to make too many. When men don’t do the right things, it is because they don’t know what to do or they don’t realize how important a certain thing is on Venus. It has little to do with how much or how little they care. Stage three is the perfect time for a woman to become more direct and begin asking for support. At this time it is also the best kind of support she can give a man. Just as a man’s little romantic efforts reassure a woman that she is special, a woman’s little requests encourage him to continue giving her what she needs. STAGE THREE: EXCLUSIVITY / 79 WHEN WOMEN MAKE SACRIFICES For a while, a woman is even happy to make sacrifices and give more in a relationship. On Venus, this is a sign of love and also one of the ways to ask for support. When a woman gives more, it is clearly also a sign that she is not getting her due share. Another woman will immediately notice and insist on helping. To her, it is obvious that when a woman is struggling to carry a box, she is asking for help. For a man it is not always so clear. In stages one and two, he will offer his help to assure her that he is willing to help, but in stage three he assumes that if she wants help she will ask. When a woman gives more instead of directly asking, it gives a man the wrong message. He is led to believe that either she doesn’t need his help or he is already giving enough. A man automatically assumes that when a woman is not asking for help, she must be getting enough. Without this understanding of how men think differently, a woman keeps giving to a man until she feels resentment inside. As her resentment builds, she feels increasingly entitled to ask for more. Eventually she does ask for more, but because she is feeling so resentful, she asks in a demanding tone or complains before making her request. WHY MEN RESIST A WOMAN’S REQUESTS At this point, a man will resist her request. His resistance is also misunderstood. It is not that he is resisting giving the help; he is resisting her resentful attitude. He is resisting the negative picture her complaints are painting of him. Although she thinks she is just sharing her feelings, he inter80 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. prets her behavior as unfair blaming and manipulation. From his perspective, he feels criticized for not giving enough and unjustly judged as unsupportive. He rejects her feelings because he has been happy to help. He clearly got the message that he was doing plenty, and now she turns on him by not appreciating what he brings to the relationship. All of this predictable turmoil and conflict can be avoided when a woman recognizes that stage three is the optimal time to ask for support. This is when she has the most negotiating power. In stage three, a man is actually most receptive to her requests. In stage three, a woman actually has the most negotiating power. If a woman waits too long to ask, then when she finally does, in a later stage, the man may get the feeling that she is asking for more because he has not been doing enough. This is not a pleasant experience for a man. He likes to feel that he is a great guy in a woman’s eyes, and very happy to go the extra mile for her. A man is actually much more motivated to say yes to a woman’s requests when she asks him for support with an attitude that is free of strings, expectations, and obligations. When a man cares about a woman, even if he doesn’t want to do something, he is happy to do that very thing if he gets a clear message that it will make her happy. If he gets a complaining or resentful message that he should do it, he is resistant and may refuse to do more until he is first fairly acknowledged and appreciated for what he has already provided. STAGE THREE: EXCLUSIVITY / 81 DISCOVERING HER POWER Long before a woman gets to stage four (intimacy), when it is appropriate to share negative feelings, she must first discover her power to ask for what she wants and get it without needing to complain. A woman needs repeatedly to experience that a man is already willing to be of assistance. With this awareness, as she opens up more in stage four, she will not feel the need to use her negative feelings as a way to motivate a man to fulfill her requests. Instead she will open up as a way to experience greater intimacy and to find relief. Many women turn men off by making the mistake of focusing on their negative feelings before making a request. On Venus they commonly talk and share their feelings about a problem before asking for a solution. While this approach may work with girlfriends, it does not work with men. These are a few examples: DON’T SAY DO SAY “We never go out.” “Would you take me out to a concert next weekend?” “We never do anything fun “Let’s do something fun this anymore.” weekend. Let’s have a picnic on the mountain.” “I’m tired of hanging around “Maybe we could go to the town all the time.” beach this weekend. What do you think?” By learning to ask for what she wants in a positive way, a woman will eventually develop one of the most important skills she needs for having a successful relationship with a man. 82 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. WOMEN CHANGE TOO Women are very aware of and verbal about the way men change in a relationship, but they are not as aware of the way they change. Women change, too. They think that now that they are in an exclusive relationship, a man will automatically do even more. The woman’s expectations increase. In anticipation, she feels inclined to do more for him. While this may seem like a good idea, it is not. As she feels she is giving more, she is no longer as excited and appreciative of the little things he does. Instead of growing in appreciation, she begins to take her partner for granted. Instead of delighting in how supported she feels, she begins to feel obligated to even the score. Since he has been doing things for her, she feels she should do things for him. She eagerly begins doing little things for him, she becomes more accommodating, she opens her schedule for him, she makes plans for him, she makes reservations for him, she worries for him, she waits for him, she tries to please him, etc. By beginning to do more, although he may like it, she unknowingly takes the wind out of his sails. THE SECRET OF SUCCESS It is fine to give to a man, but what is great is to receive. The secret to success for a woman in the third stage is to continue receiving. This is the time for her to focus not on doing things for her partner but on receiving. By being receptive and responsive to what a man offers, she is actually giving the relationship the best chance to grow. As long as she doesn’t give more than she feels he is giving, then she will not begin expecting more in return. To be most receptive and open to him, she needs to focus on trusting him and not giving him any advice, accepting him just as he is, not STAGE THREE: EXCLUSIVITY / 83 trying to change him in any way, and appreciating what he offers regardless of how much better she might like something else. Her role is to give him the opportunity to keep succeeding; his role is to keep succeeding. In stage three, learning to create a receptive attitude can be as challenging for a woman as it is for a man to continue giving when his automatic tendency is to relax. Just as a man tends to take for granted that a woman is getting what she needs because he is being exclusive, women take for granted that men should be more giving and supportive. DON’T TAKE YOUR DATE FOR GRANTED It is easy on a first date to be responsive. After a woman has been dating a man for a while, when he still makes some of the same mistakes, then she can easily make the mistake of being too critical. Rather than focus on what she can do for a man, she needs to focus on creating a receptive attitude. Without making a conscious decision to put her best foot forward, she can easily begin to expect his support in a way that takes him for granted. She can easily forget to be responsive. Being responsive is at first automatic, but then a woman must consciously make a choice to focus on and express her positive responses. After expressing her positive responses becomes an automatic habit, a woman is ready to move into the intimacy stage of a relationship. Here are some examples from dating couples who came for counseling or participated in Mars/Venus workshops. When Tom Was Late In the beginning, when Earl was late, Dawn would think, Well, he is just getting used to where I live. A few months 84 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. later, when Earl did it again, she got more upset with him. Instead of focusing on the fact that he got there and being happy to see him, she became upset. Earl felt Dawn was too demanding. Once Dawn discovered her mistake, she didn’t give him a disapproving look or complain the next time he was late. That evening they had a great date. After he kissed her good night, he apologized and thanked her for not minding that he was late. Dawn learned the importance of being responsive to a man’s efforts and saved her relationship. It is these little misunderstandings that can prevent a couple from moving through the five stages of dating. When Joel Emptied the Trash In the beginning, Joel used to empty Veronica’s trash, and she was happy and responsive. Later she started occasionally doing his laundry, and she felt the least he could do was to keep emptying her trash. When he emptied the trash for her and she had no positive response, he immediately noticed. When he asked if she noticed that he had emptied her trash, she just argued. She said, “I don’t expect you to be excited when I do your laundry, so why do I have to make a big deal out of it when you empty my trash?” Veronica won the argument, but Joel stopped emptying the trash. She just didn’t understand that men are different and they lose their feelings of attraction for a woman when she is not responsive. Eventually, she learned that when she was responsive to Joel and appreciated his efforts with positive responses, not only was he happier, but he became more interested in doing things for her. This kind of support made her even happier and more responsive. STAGE THREE: EXCLUSIVITY / 85 When Michael Didn’t Call In the beginning, Michael didn’t call Terressa on a regular basis. She was understanding because they were not yet exclusive and Michael had a very demanding work schedule. After about ten dates, she began to feel he should be calling her more. When he did call, though, she was not that excited, and when he didn’t call enough she would even get upset with him. After a while, Michael said, he didn’t think much about calling her and then the thought of her expecting him to call turned him off. After a while he said, “Look, if you want to talk to me then you call me.” For a while, Terressa called him, but she was disappointed that he was distant and distracted, and didn’t seem interested. After taking the Mars/Venus workshop, Michael realized that by calling or even surprising her with a little card, he could let Terressa know she was important to him and that he was thinking of her. Even if he didn’t have much time or much to say, he could call and say hi and ask about her day. Terressa learned to be appreciative that he was thinking of her and to be responsive to his call. She learned to appreciate the ways he was showing his caring and he started calling her more, not because he had to but because he wanted to. When Darrel Opened the Car Door In the beginning, when Darrel took Linda on a date, she smiled and was really delighted when he opened the car door for her. After about six dates, she began to expect it and stopped smiling. She responded as if it was his job. He was the man and he should just do it. After a while, he would sometimes forget to open the door for her. Although it is important for a man to show his affection 86 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. for a woman by doing little things like opening the car door, it is just as important for a woman to pay attention to the little things he does and respond in a way that reveals her good feelings for him. After the workshop, they both changed their attitudes. Linda said, “I could never understand why he would want me to acknowledge the little things he did. I didn’t understand, so I thought he was just being too demanding. Now that I understand my appreciating the things he does is the best way I can show him my affection, then I am happy to do it. It has made our relationship so much more fun and light.” When Gary Took Lisa Out for Dinner In the beginning, Gary brought Lisa to a nice restaurant and she was particularly appreciative. She was happy to be there and enjoyed the food a lot. Gary was particularly impressed by how responsive she was. After several dates, she was not so appreciative. The thrill of going to restaurants was over. She stopped being responsive and instead started being rather negative. Instead of looking at what was good she responded to what was missing. After a while Gary wasn’t inclined to pick restaurants anymore. Instead of suggesting where to go, he just asked her where she would like to go. He felt, If she’s going to be so picky, then I’ll just let her pick the restaurant. After a while, they lost their feelings of attraction. At the seminar, they became inspired again to express their affection for each other. When he would suggest a restaurant, Lisa was very careful to share in a responsive manner her most positive feelings. It was not that she was faking it. She had always had the capacity to bring up her positive feelings, but once Gary STAGE THREE: EXCLUSIVITY / 87 became more familiar, she was just relaxing and letting herself vent the frustrations of the day through focusing on the negative. Certainly, sharing the frustrations of the day is an important part of a relationship, but it should not be attempted until stage four of a relationship. In stage three, both partners develop the habit of expressing their most positive side. Once that becomes automatic, then they are ready to balance the scales by sharing their negative feelings as well. Then she will have the sensitivity to make sure he feels acknowledged for providing such a nice dinner and he will have the understanding that she is not being critical of him. When Ed Paid for the Tickets In the beginning, Ed paid for the theater tickets and Elaine seemed impressed and appreciative. After they had dated for a few months, she got used to his paying for dates and began to respond as if he was supposed to do it. Even though up to stage four the man is supposed to, it should never be taken for granted, even if the woman is also doing things for him. After Elaine realized that she was taking Ed for granted, she was immediately able to respond differently. Not only did she start smiling and thanking him, but she was careful to be responsive whenever he did something for her. When he planned a date, she was careful to say she was glad that he had taken the time to plan it. Sometimes even if she thought it wasn’t such a great idea, she appreciated his effort and went along, only to be surprised that she had a really good time. She began really to appreciate not having to think and plan all the time. That in itself was more important than planning the perfect date. Ed loved it and was always thinking of things they could do 88 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. together, since she was so positive in her response. Instead of getting a list of things that could be wrong or go wrong, he got her support. This brought the fun back into their dating. When Rick Complimented Colleen In the beginning, Rick used to compliment Colleen. She used to smile and let it in. As they continued to date, when he complimented her, she stopped responding. She would sometimes say things like “Oh, I really don’t like my hair this way,” or “I can’t believe that; this dress is really on the way out,” or “I really didn’t have time to get ready,” or “Oh, you’re just saying that; I must look awful.” After a while, Rick just stopped complimenting her. He didn’t even know that the change had occurred. In the workshop he learned the importance of compliments and so he started giving them again. He asked Colleen just to let them in and say thanks. Colleen was open to learning about their differences and was willing to practice responding in a positive way to his compliments. After a few months, she said not only that she liked them more, but that she had started to believe them. REALIZING THE PURPOSE OF STAGE THREE Without understanding the purpose of the third stage, a couple can easily miss creating the experiences that will determine the outcome of their relationship. Each partner must experience the best the other has to offer. Both need to experience that they have the power to give of themselves and be successful. In stage three, they need to create a history of dates where he has succeeded and she feels supported. In the future, when STAGE THREE: EXCLUSIVITY / 89 a partner is not so giving or receptive, they can easily trust that it is just a temporary setback and that they have the power to create a positive experience again. This is not a time to evaluate your partner at all. Instead, it is a time to evaluate how you are doing and what you can do to be your best self and bring out your partner’s best. To this end, men make romantic gestures and women focus on being receptive and responsive. If the outcome is that they are inspired to be their best, then they are ready to experience the real and lasting love that can grow only in the fourth stage, intimacy. THE WISDOM OF WAITING The wisdom of waiting to be intimate is that a man’s desire has a chance to grow into the higher levels of expression. When a man takes time to move through the first three stages of dating, his physical desire expands into the emotional desire to please the woman. His desire to please her in turn develops into a genuine interest in who she is. This interest in who she is then has a chance to turn into love. When his physical desire is also the expression of his love for a woman, then this is the best time to experience increasing degrees of intimacy. Having an exclusive relationship provides the foundation for lasting intimacy. A woman creates intimacy by honestly sharing more of who she is, and a man experiences increased intimacy by successfully supporting and nurturing more of who she is. As she discloses herself more, he can gradually get to know her. If he continues to be supportive as he gets to know her better, then the love he feels in his heart has a chance to grow. 6 Stage Four: Intimacy When we are able to feel and experience the best in ourselves and in our partners, we are then ready to experience all of them and allow them to experience all of us. When we feel a chemistry with a partner on all four levels—physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual—then we are ready for intimacy. These different levels of chemistry can be easily explained. • Physical chemistry creates desire and arousal. • Emotional chemistry creates affection, caring, and trust. • Mental chemistry creates interest and receptivity. • Spiritual chemistry opens our hearts, creating love, appreciation, and respect. When we are turned on to a partner on all four levels, we are ready to move on to stage four. 90 STAGE FOUR: INTIMACY / 91 By getting your needs met in the earlier stages, you are able to discover how much spiritual chemistry or love you feel for someone. Using the right dating skills cannot make you love someone more or make him or her love you more, but dating skills can assist you in discovering how much love you have for a person. CHEMISTRY IS NOT CREATED Chemistry on any level cannot be created. You cannot make someone physically attracted to you. All you can do is create the right conditions for that person to discover what chemistry is possible. You cannot just drill a well anywhere and find water. When a woman in a restaurant gets up and walks to the rest room, a man gets to see her. Either he feels the chemistry or he doesn’t. The same woman viewed by different men will evoke different degrees of attraction and interest. In a similar manner, we cannot create emotional, mental, or spiritual chemistry. It just is. What we can do is create the right conditions for people to discover how much they love us or how much they find us truly interesting or how much they want to make us happy. All we can do is make sure we have the opportunity to feel chemistry to the degree it exists. By setting up the right conditions in the earlier stages, we give whatever chemistry is potentially there a chance to be felt. When you have seen the best of a person over time, then your heart has a chance to open. With enough love in your heart, you are then prepared to experience the worst of that person and still come back to a loving connection. You are able to hold him or her in your heart even though you may be frustrated or disappointed. 92 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. THE POWER OF LOVE When our hearts are open and we love, respect, and appreciate our partners, we are capable of supporting them even when they are not as perfect as we might have thought in earlier stages. Spiritual chemistry gives us the power to overcome the judgments, doubts, demands, and criticism we may sometimes experience. Even if our hearts temporarily close down, we can more easily find our way back to that love with the solid foundation of many loving and positive experiences. Through repeatedly coming back to love, you will eventually gain the confidence and self-assurance necessary to pick your special partner for life in stage four. After getting married, you will be prepared when the big challenges of a relationship arise. Instead of going through the power struggles many couples experience, you will be able to draw on that spiritual chemistry to find the right compromise, to apologize when necessary, and to forgive your partner for not being perfect. THE STRATEGY OF STAGE FOUR In this fourth stage the strategy is slowly to become more intimate, revealing more and more of who you are. This is the time to relax more and just get to know each other. It is not necessary to keep up your guard and be as positive as in other stages. A woman can open up more and communicate how she feels even when she is not in a good mood. It is fine for her to talk about the things that she doesn’t like in her life and in the relationship. It is sometimes even better for her to interact with her partner when she is not in a good mood. She does not always have to be so positive when they are together. This is a great relief for a woman. Now she can turn to her partner and share her vulnerable side; she can relax and be the rest of who she is. As she is able to share more of herself, how STAGE FOUR: INTIMACY / 93 she thinks and feels, and a man continues to feel love, interest, caring, and desire for her, then she is ready to experience increasing physical intimacy as well. As a woman slowly opens up to experiencing more intimacy, she has a chance to rise up in waves of increasing fulfillment and pleasure. Likewise, in this stage the man feels a relief as well. He has been looking forward to more physical intimacy. As the woman experiences the ability to open up and share all of herself mentally and emotionally, then they both rejoice in the opportunity to experience that love physically as well. A man’s heart has a chance to open fully as he experiences increasing physical intimacy. WOMEN ARE LIKE WAVES One of the challenges of this stage is for men to understand that when a woman rises up she also comes crashing down. Women are like waves, as I explain in Chapter 7 of Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus. As a woman becomes more vulnerable in the relationship, then quite naturally her feelings tend to rise and fall. For many weeks she may feel very loving and happy, but then suddenly, after the wave reaches its peak, the wave crashes and she hits bottom. Increased intimacy makes a woman feel more vulnerable, and as a result her feelings will tend to rise and fall like waves. When a woman’s wave crashes, she has very little to give, temporarily. This is when a man is required to draw from his skills of stage three and continue giving his best without expecting an immediate return. He has to remember he has the power to provide for her happiness. When a man mistakenly assumes that he 94 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. can’t make a woman happy, he becomes very discouraged. The many positive experiences of stage three prepare a man for this time when he doesn’t seem to be as successful. A man can minimize his discouragement and frustration when the woman’s wave inevitably crashes by understanding that women are like waves and by having many positive memories of times when he has been successful. Then, instead of feeling he can’t do anything, he knows exactly what to do and has realistic expectations about the outcome. When a woman’s wave crashes, a man may mistakenly conclude that he can’t do anything to make her happy. As the wave rises, a woman is able to give and express more and more love. When it crashes, regardless of how wonderful her partner is, she will temporarily lose (to different degrees) her ability to be as loving. She is suddenly not as self-assured, receptive, and responsive. At those times, the man makes the mistake of trying to fix her. He tries to talk her out of feeling the way she does instead of taking the time to be more considerate and supportive in a way that works on Venus. Rather than giving solutions, a man can be most successful if he provides increased understanding and empathy. When her wave is crashing, what a woman needs to feel most is that she is not being judged or rejected for not being as loving. When the wave crashes, a woman needs a man’s love the most. When a woman feels supported, she doesn’t necessarily feel better right away. It takes time. If she is on her way STAGE FOUR: INTIMACY / 95 down, then a man’s support will just make it easier for her to hit bottom. Once she hits bottom, if she feels his support, her wave will rise up again. WHEN THE WAVE CRASHES These are some common examples of how a woman feels when her wave crashes. 1. She Feels Overwhelmed She may suddenly begin to complain about her life. Instead of feeling rejected, a man needs to listen and be understanding. After she has talked about all that she has to do, a man must resist giving a solution and give her a compliment. If she says, “I have no time to go out. There is so much to do. I just can’t do it all.”… DON’T SAY “Just don’t do so much. You should relax and take it easy.” “Forget it and come out with me. We can have a good time instead of being miserable.” “You worry too much. It will all work out. Let’s just go out and have a good time.” DO SAY “You give so much of yourself for so many people. Let me give you a hug.” “There is so much to do.” Then listen with empathy as she lists everything. After listening for a while to everything that needs to be done, either offer to help or ask, “Is there anything I can do?” 96 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Once she feels heard, a man offers his help. He must be careful not to expect his support to take away her discouraged feelings. She is not going to say, “Oh, thank you so much for offering to help; now I feel so much better.” She can say that only when her wave is on the way up. When the wave crashes, a man has to know that a woman’s ability to appreciate him is at an all-time low. When the wave comes back up, she will then feel a lot of appreciation. Anyone can be loving when a person is in a good mood. The real test of love is to be there for her when she hits bottom. When a woman is down and a man is there for her then he is always remembered and appreciated. These are the times when a woman actually grows in her ability to trust her partner’s love and support. 2. She Feels Insecure She may suddenly begin to ask a lot of questions about the relationship or about how he feels. She may ask questions about how much he loves her or how he feels about her body. These questions are not to be taken literally. Don’t try to solve her problem through reason. She is just looking for reassurances. If she says, “Do you think I look fat?”… DON’T SAY DO SAY “Well, you certainly don’t “I think you are beautiful and have the body of model, but I love you just the way you those women starve them-are.” And then give her a hug. selves.” STAGE FOUR: INTIMACY / 97 DON’T SAY DO SAY “You shouldn’t be so hard on yourself. I’m not.” “If you really want to lose weight then you should get help.” “If you would come with me to work out then you would feel better about your body.” “You look great just the way you are. I adore you.” And then give her a hug. “You sure turn me on. I think you are a knockout.” And then give her a hug and a kiss. “You look wonderful to me. I love your body.” And then give her a hug and kiss. If she says, “Do you think we are right for each other? Do you still love me?”… DON’T SAY “Well, I think we still have several things to work out.” “Well, time will tell. That’s why we’re dating.” “Why else would I be dating you for a year?” “How many times do we have to go through this? I think we have already had this conversation.” DO SAY “Yes. I am madly in love with you. You are the most special woman in my life.” “Yes. You are the most fantastic woman I have ever met.” “Yes. I love you more each day.” “Yes. My love for you grows each day I know you better.” 98 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. If she says, “How can you love me? My life is so disorganized. I am falling apart.”… DON’T SAY “Well, sometimes it is hard. I really wish you would not make such a big deal out of things.” “Your life is not falling apart. You just need to be less emotional.” “You take on too much. If you would relax more, then things would not be so bleak.” “If you wouldn’t get so upset about things, it would be a lot easier to love you.” “If you would prioritize your time better, then your life would not be falling apart. If you…” DO SAY “Well, I love you and I am here to hold you together. You do so much. Let me give you a hug. I sure love you.” “Well, you can fall right here in my arms anytime. I love you. You can call on me whenever you need me.” “I love you because you are so giving. You give so much of yourself. What can I do to help?” “I love you because you are special to me. I don’t care if you’re falling apart. I’m here for you.” “I love that you need me. I love being here for you. I have some time, let me do this for you…” 3. She Feels Resentful Quite often, as her wave rises, a woman will happily give of herself without realizing that she is also expecting more in STAGE FOUR: INTIMACY / 99 return. On her way up, she is not expecting more, but if she has given more than she feels she has gotten, she will feel resentful when the wave crashes. She may be resentful toward practically anything: her partner, her life, her job, his job, the weather, the waiter in the restaurant, her parents, the traffic, and so on. A man must be careful not to judge her or condemn her for being too negative or unreasonable, and he should not try to talk her out of her feelings. If she says, “I hate my boss. I can’t believe how much he expects me to do. He left me a memo saying…” DON’T SAY “I don’t think your boss means to wear you out. He likes you.” “He probably doesn’t know how much you’re already doing. He just expects you to do your best.” “You should tell him you just can’t do more. Just say no.” “You should tell him how busy you are. Then he wouldn’t give you so much more to do.” DO SAY “I think it’s really unfair. How can he say that?” “He doesn’t recognize how much you do. You do so much. What does he want?” Then listen and let her talk more. “It’s awful—doesn’t he see how much you’re doing?” Then listen and let her talk more. “Hummph, he expects too much. You deserve some time off. When do you rest?” Then listen and let her talk more. 100 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. If she says, “This waiter is really a jerk. We have been waiting for our check for fifteen minutes.”… DON’T SAY DO SAY “Well, they’re busy today. I am “I can’t believe it. Those sure he’s doing his best.” people at that table over there got their check and now they’re leaving. I’ll go find him.” “It’s not his fault; they’re short “Yeah, he’s ignoring us. I can’t of staff.” believe they have so few waiters.” “Don’t worry, we’re not in a “If he doesn’t come soon we hurry. We can still make the could be late to the movie. I’ll movie.” try to get his attention.” When a woman is feeling resentful, the last thing she wants is for a man to minimize the problem about which she is upset. She primarily needs to talk it out, vent her frustrations, and feel that someone is on her side. This is what intimacy is all about. She needs to feel that he is her ally. To feel most loved, a woman needs to open up, share all of herself, and experience that she is still loved. Learning to cope with a woman’s tendency to move up and down like a wave is one of the most difficult challenges of dating for a man. A WOMAN’S GREATEST CHALLENGE Women also have a challenge with their male partners. Just as women move up and down as a result of intimacy, men move back and forth. When a man experiences increasing STAGE FOUR: INTIMACY / 101 intimacy, he begins to switch back and forth between wanting to get closer and wanting to pull away. To move into a woman’s life without losing his sense of self and sense of autonomy, a man moves back and forth between feeling a strong desire to get close and a desire to get away and be on his own. The more intimate a man becomes with a woman, the more he will sometimes feel a need to pull away. As long as he hasn’t yet become intimate, as in stage three, a man continues to feel a desire to be close, he plans to make her happy, and he is interested in getting to know her and express his love for her. He doesn’t feel this need to pull away nearly as much. Once he moves into stage four and experiences increasing intimacy, he will feel the need to pull away as well. To whatever extent he has given up parts of himself to move closer, he will feel a need to be autonomous. No matter how wonderful a woman is, as they get closer, a man will periodically pull away before he can get closer. When a man experiences increasing intimacy, periodically he needs to pull away before he can get closer. The more intimate a man feels with a woman, the more he will eventually feel a need to pull away. He can then return to her with even more love. Each time, after he pulls away, his love has a chance to grow when he returns. THE IN-AND-OUT URGE This basic in-and-out urge is in all men. It is associated with a man’s high levels of testosterone, which all men have and women don’t. Since this isn’t a woman’s basic experience, it 102 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. is difficult for a woman to instinctively support a man in this process. As a result, she can unknowingly sabotage the growth of a man’s love and attraction for her. When a man pulls away, it is very important that she not pursue him or try to get him back. She must be careful not to be rejecting when he returns. A man needs to feel that she freely accepts his tendency to pull away. Women mistakenly assume that more intimacy is better. When a man pulls away, a woman thinks something is wrong and wants to experience more intimacy. The wise woman learns to give a man his space and trust that he will once again find his hunger to be with her on his own. She understands that “absence makes the heart grow fonder.” She even encourages him to spend time with his friends away from her. By giving him distance, she lets him feel his desire to pursue her and win her over and over again. MEN ARE LIKE RUBBER BANDS When a woman accepts a man’s need to pull away, she sets the right conditions for him to find within himself his desire to be close to her. As I explained when discussing stage two, men are like rubber bands. When they pull away they can only stretch so far before they come springing back. By supporting a man’s tendency to pull away, a woman ensures that he can find the love in his heart to come back. Each time he comes back to her, he will love her more. His need to pull away will diminish slowly over time. It will always be there to some degree, but it becomes less extreme. A man’s tendency to pull away is most extreme when he experiences intimacy before he is ready. If a man gets close to a woman before he has experienced chemistry on all four levels—physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual—he may not come back STAGE FOUR: INTIMACY / 103 when he pulls away. If he has not experienced enough love, then the rubber band breaks. Let’s explore an example. Love at First Sight When Derrick, thirty-two years old, first met Rochelle, who was thirty years old, he fell in love. It was love at first sight. Within a few dates they were already feeling and acting like soul mates. Derrick would call several times every day. They spent weekends together sharing everything. Derrick had never felt so passionate. Rochelle had been swept off her feet. Their relationship was romantic; they just couldn’t get enough of each other. Then after three weeks, Derrick stopped calling. Rochelle couldn’t understand why. She worried that something had happened to him. She called him at work, but nothing was wrong. He was friendly, though definitely different. He didn’t even plan a date with her. Rochelle was offended. She couldn’t believe he could change so quickly from hot to cold. She acted nice but was devastated inside. She felt hurt that he talked to her as if she were just a friend. She waited for two days and he still didn’t call her. She couldn’t believe it. She never wanted to see him again. She then proceeded to call and let him know how she felt. After a very uncomfortable call, they ended their relationship. She felt hurt and resentful, while he felt bad for hurting her. He hadn’t meant to lead her on. He had thought she was the one. All he knew was that one morning he woke up next to her and all he could feel is that she wasn’t the one. He felt an almost uncontrollable urge to get away. As they had breakfast together, he began comparing her with the ideal woman in his mind. She just didn’t measure up to what he wanted. As suddenly as he had fallen in love with her, he was now no longer in love with her. 104 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. He didn’t know what to do, so he didn’t do anything. When she called again and he heard how much he hurt her, he agreed to end the relationship. He felt sorry, but that was all he could do. He couldn’t change his feelings and he definitely didn’t want to keep hurting her. Getting Hot and Then Cold Six months later, after taking a Mars/Venus workshop, Derrick learned that men were like rubber bands. It suddenly made complete sense to him why he had been so hot and cold with Rochelle. He had gotten really close and experienced being intimate with her. Then while he was pulling away, she called him. He couldn’t reassure her of his feelings for her because he was not feeling them. He assumed that she was just the wrong person for him. He wondered what would have happened if they had taken more time to get to know each other instead of rushing into stage four of the relationship. Although he wasn’t feeling a deep hunger to be with her, as before, he did miss her. He decided to call her and explain what he thought had happened. They went to dinner to discuss the insights he had gained in the workshop. One thing led to another and they continued to date each other. This time, although it was hard to refrain from having sex, they went more slowly. They decided to experiment to give their relationship a chance and took the time necessary to move through the different stages of dating. When they finally reached the fourth stage, Derrick started feeling his need to pull away again. Like a stretched rubber band, he would spring back. This time, his need to pull away was not as intense because he had taken enough time to develop their relationship. When he pulled away it was only a few days before he started to miss her a lot. Derrick and Rochelle had STAGE FOUR: INTIMACY / 105 developed enough of a relationship so that when he pulled away the rubber band didn’t break. After about a year, they got married, and to this day they are very happy together. THE FOUR DOORWAYS TO INTIMACY There are four doorways to connecting and experiencing true intimacy. As discussed earlier, they are physical, emotional, mental and spiritual. Until we have prepared each of these different aspects of who we are, we are not ready to become deeply intimate in a relationship. If we rush into being too intimate before we are ready, the results will be counterproductive. The first three stages of dating prepare us to experience intimacy. As we take the time to experience and develop physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual chemistry, we become capable of getting closer. If we become physically or emotionally connected before we feel mentally or spiritually connected, then we may feel incomplete. We wake up the next day wondering who that person was with whom we just connected. Instead of wanting to get closer, we will want to get away. Or it may go the opposite way. We might feel, That felt good but something was missing; I need more. When couples connect too soon, the man generally ends up pulling away, while the woman feels more needy. Some neediness and some pulling away are fine, but when we are not prepared on all levels, these two reactions are even stronger. A man may pull away so intensely that he doesn’t come back to the relationship. A woman will feel so needy that she will begin to pursue the man as he pulls away and turn him off. By first opening all four doorways, a man and woman become ready to experience true intimacy. When couples rush into intimacy, the tendency for a man to 106 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. be like a rubber band and a woman to be like a wave is intensified. If they take time, her waves will not be so extreme and his rubber band will not be so long. They will have their ups and downs, but they will be more manageable. WHY WAITING IS SO IMPORTANT Through fully experiencing stage three, men and women are able to move through all the four doors to intimacy. For many men, it comes as a surprise when they experience that mental and emotional intimacy can be as fulfilling as physical intimacy. When a man eventually tastes the fulfillment of experiencing complete physical intimacy with someone with whom he also shares emotional, mental, and spiritual intimacy, he cannot go back. Just to have sex when he could make love is like eating junk food when he could have a Thanksgiving feast. Why settle for less? It may take more time and energy, but it is real and lasting. By taking the time to move through all the five stages, a man ensures that when he does give all of himself it will yield the greatest return. SWITCHING ROLES As a man succeeds in being there for a woman, she will feel it’s safe to become more vulnerable. This very process of a man’s being there for a woman not only helps the woman but also helps a man open up to his feelings. By learning to respect and understand her feelings, he becomes more in touch with his own. Naturally, he will want to share more with her. Once she has gotten what she needs to open up and share herself, it is fine for a man to switch roles temporarily and allow a woman to be there for him. STAGE FOUR: INTIMACY / 107 In stage four, it is fine to switch roles occasionally. If the man has always planned the dates, she can do it now and then. If he has always been a good listener, now she just listens. If he has always initiated romance, now she initiates it sometimes. This switching of roles is an important step, but it must be done with caution. It is too easy for a man to sit back and receive and for a woman to give too much. When roles are switched, it should be done consciously, with an awareness that it is just occasional. WHEN MEN FEEL AND TALK A LOT Some men are already in touch with their feelings. They are very open and ready to talk. These men can unknowingly sabotage a relationship. A woman needs to feel first that a man is there for her; then she can be there for him without losing herself. When a man needs a woman more than she needs him, it can be a real turnoff. By making sure that he never talks more than the woman, a man creates the right balance in the relationship. The man should be careful never to talk more than the woman. When a woman senses a man’s need for support, it can actually prevent her from feeling her own needs. This is a big difference between men and women. When a man is there for a woman, he gets more in touch with his own feelings and needs. When a woman is there for a man, it may cause her to lose touch with her feelings and needs. FINDING BALANCE When a couple switches roles too much, a man may become like a wave and a woman may become like a rubber band. The 108 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. problem with this is that when a woman is like a rubber band she may not spring back automatically like a man. When a man is like a crashing wave, it makes a woman feel overly protective of his needs and she tends to forget her own. He also runs the risk of becoming too soft and sensitive. To avoid this, couples need to find the right balance for them. Too much switching of roles can kill romance. In the right measure it is wonderful. A man can go to his partner to share his intimate and private thoughts, feelings, needs, wishes, and wants, but he must be careful to do this only when she has gotten her needs satisfied first. He must also be careful not to be overly sensitive. If he tends to get more upset about things than she does, it can prevent her from getting in touch with her true sensitive feelings. This then can prevent them from experiencing the deep intimacy that can be felt only when the woman opens up and the man enters in to support her. A man needs to be careful not to be too needy of a woman’s time, energy, and nurturing support. It is way too easy for her to be accommodating and then, later on, resent the fact that she feels she is not getting the support she deserves. She may feel the need to pull away, but she doesn’t happily spring back. Instead she feels pulled back by obligation. This can prevent a couple from moving on to the fifth stage of dating: engagement. MOVING ON TO THE FIFTH STAGE OF DATING By getting to know each other more intimately, when the time is right, we can easily recognize whether our partner is to be our soul mate. So many times people ask, “How do you know?” The answer is: Move through the first four stages and you will know. At a certain point, you will know whether this person is for you. At this point, you are ready to move on to the fifth stage of dating. 7 Stage Five: Engagement Having prepared ourselves in the earlier stages of dating, we gain the ability to know if we want to marry our dating partner. We recognize our partner to be our soul mate. Not only are we in love; we love this person so much that we want to spend the rest of our life with him or her. This recognition is only a glimpse. Although we are certain that our partner is right for us, this knowledge can later be doubted or forgotten. To make sure it is lasting, we must acknowledge and commit ourselves to it. It is important to strike while the iron is hot; otherwise, when it cools down, we may miss the opportunity. When we are finally able to recognize our soul mate, in the beginning it is only a glimpse. 109 110 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. By making the commitment to get married, we automatically strengthen and support this recognition. By acting on this feeling and becoming engaged, we make this delicate realization becomes more solid, real, and grounded. It must be carefully nurtured and protected, like a little sprout shooting forth in spring. With the appropriate care our love has a chance to grow stronger. THE IMPORTANCE OF THE PROPOSAL Most men don’t realize how important the proposal is to a woman. On Venus, second to a wedding ceremony, the proposal is the most cherished memory of a lifetime. Some men rebel against this idea because they don’t realize how important it really is. Besides being one of the most important gifts a man can ever give, a proposal paves the way for a great marriage. On Venus, second to a wedding ceremony, the proposal is the most cherished memory of a lifetime. At difficult times in the future, it will be so helpful for the couple to look back to that very special moment and remember how they felt when their hearts were innocent, without any baggage, and they sincerely pledged their love to each other. It is a wonderful gift for a man to create a memorable occasion. It will happen only once, so it’s a good idea to put some extra thought into it. For the rest of her life, a woman will tell the story of how her partner proposed. A man should privately ask his married friends for some good ideas. STAGE FIVE: ENGAGEMENT / 111 THE CHALLENGE OF STAGE FIVE The greatest challenge in stage five is not to rush into taking on the responsibilities of marriage. Many marriages fail not because couples picked the wrong partner but because they did not prepare adequately. When the inevitable stresses and problems of moving in and sharing a home and life together arise, they begin to doubt that they are with the right person. They lose touch with the very special feelings of love and commitment they felt in stage five. The engagement stage is an opportunity for the couple to create lasting memories of their special love for each other. It is a time to practice the most basic skills of loving before putting them to the test of marriage. Being engaged is like a warm-up period before more rigorous exercise. It is a time to stretch your relationship muscles so that when you put them to the test and exercise them, they will be ready. An engagement prepares you to succeed in marriage. Being engaged is like a warm-up period before more rigorous exercise. When couples take at least five to eight months to bask in the certainty of their love, then they are ready when the big tests come later. As the stress of marriage increases, we are able to once again find that love in our heart because we have had many pure and untainted experiences of love for our partner and his or her love for us. Being engaged provides a strong and necessary foundation for taking on the challenges of moving in and sharing the complexities of life with a partner. 112 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Being engaged provides a strong and necessary foundation for taking on the challenges of moving in and sharing the complexities of life with a partner. THE GIFTS OF ENGAGEMENT The gifts of engagement are equally important but different for men and women. A woman will be more successful in marriage by remembering the clear and loving feelings she experienced while being engaged. For the rest of her life, she will be able to reach back and reconnect with the part of her that trusts, accepts, and appreciates her partner. The special commitment her partner makes to her helps her to find the part of her that is self-assured, receptive, and responsive. Later on, when life becomes mundane and routine, she will be able to reach back and find the part of her that can create romance and is inspired by giving and receiving love. During the engagement, a man also collects a series of experiences and memories that will affect him for the rest of his life. When he experiences his partner without the stresses of marriage, but with the clear recognition that he wants to share his life with her, he is able to feel his most confident, purposeful, and responsible self. Without the pressures of marriage, a man has many opportunities to experience his power to provide. This confidence gives him the power and commitment to solve the problems and resolve the conflicts that will arise in the future. STAGE FIVE: ENGAGEMENT / 113 Without the pressures of marriage, a man has many opportunities to successfully experience his power to provide. Being engaged gives a man the future ability to connect with the most noble part of who he is. At times of stress, he is able to reach back and remember the promises he made when his heart was open. He is able to reconnect with that part of him that deeply cares, respects, and cherishes his partner. THE TWO MOST IMPORTANT SKILLS Being engaged is a stage for couples to celebrate their love in preparation for getting married. During this window of time, we have the greatest ability to learn and practice the two most important skills of staying married: the ability to apologize and the ability to forgive. By practicing these two skills before the more difficult challenges arise, couples are then ready to get married. These two skills are like the two wings of a bird. Without both wings the bird of love and peace cannot fly. Apologies and forgiveness are interdependent. When one partner apologizes, that makes it easier for the other to find forgiveness. When one partner is very forgiving, that makes it easy for the other to be more responsible and apologize. It is difficult for a man to apologize for his mistakes when he does not sense he will be forgiven. It is equally difficult for a woman to forgive a man’s mistakes when he does not apologize. One cannot exist for long without the other. 114 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. When Men Apologize To develop these skills most effectively, a man should first focus on being responsible for apologizing for his mistakes and a woman should first focus on being responsible for forgiving the man for his mistakes. Although both men and women must be able to apologize and forgive, by maintaining this particular approach, they will be most successful. When a man can apologize for a mistake and be forgiven, then he automatically becomes forgiving of his partner. As he anticipates her love and acceptance, he can more easily acknowledge and learn from his mistakes. When he does not have to consider whether he will be loved, then he is free to consider what happened and how he could do it differently in the future. A man’s ability to self-correct in consideration of others is directly linked to how accepted he feels. When a man feels punished by his partner, it is difficult for him to become more considerate and sensitive to her needs. When men can apologize, not only are women happier, but the man also gets what he needs most—her trust, acceptance, and appreciation. When Women Forgive When a woman can forgive in response to a man’s apology, she gains the ability to be more accepting and trusting. Without his apologies, she cannot easily grow in her ability to trust and accept a man the way he is. If he is unwilling to consider his mistakes, a woman will dwell on his mistakes until he does. She takes on the responsibility of improving him instead of staying focused on herself and improving her attitude. STAGE FIVE: ENGAGEMENT / 115 When a man is unwilling to consider his mistakes, a woman will dwell on his mistakes until he does. A relationship thrives when a man focuses on correcting his behavior to be more considerate and the woman focuses on correcting her attitude toward his behaviors. By practicing forgiveness, a woman discovers her power to bring out the best in a man and herself. By finding the forgiving part of herself, a woman will connect with her most loving self. THE PERFECT TIME TO PRACTICE Engagement is the perfect time to practice giving apologies and finding forgiveness. Certainly it would be easier for the woman to do all the accommodating and apologizing and the man to be easygoing and forgiving, but they would not be prepared for marriage. Too often married women complain that their husbands never apologize, while married men complain that their wives are unforgiving and punishing and never forget anything they do wrong. To correct this tendency we need to nip it in the bud. A man in stage five does not mind making apologies. This is primarily because he hasn’t experienced years of being blamed and rejected for his mistakes. In stage five, he still anticipates being forgiven. That is why this is the best time for him to practice. When a man focuses on his mistakes and not hers, he discovers a tremendous power to make her happy. 116 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. A woman in stage five doesn’t mind practicing being forgiving. After all, unlike her married counterpart, she hasn’t experienced her partner’s repeating certain mistakes for years. In stage five, she anticipates that he will continue to be considerate of her needs. As a result, she is most open to practicing forgiveness. When a woman deliberately chooses to focus on creating a positive and receptive attitude by forgiving, she then discovers how much a man really wants to please her and support her. She begins to trust that he really is doing his best and that he can provide more and more of what she wants. She experiences and learns that her love, not her punishments, brings out the best in him. MARRIAGE IS A MAGNIFYING GLASS Engagement is the best time to practice because we are not yet married. It is still practice. It is still warming up to the real thing. Marriage is like a magnifying glass. Everything becomes bigger. Our love grows, but our problems and pressures become bigger as well. By practicing before marriage on issues that come up, both partners become more receptive. In this stage, the man feels completely accepted after the woman has just agreed to marry him. It is at this time that he is most confident and responsible and therefore more willing to make apologies for his mistakes. The more he apologizes and gets forgiven, the more he will feel free to acknowledge his mistakes and correct certain behaviors in the future. The more a man apologizes and is forgiven, the more considerate he becomes. STAGE FIVE: ENGAGEMENT / 117 A woman is also more receptive to a man’s mistakes. By clearly expressing her forgiveness when a man asks for it, a woman gives him the messages he needs to be the best he can be. The ability to forgive is the most important skill for a woman to have. With this power, she can keep letting go of little resentments that eventually build up and prevent her from being loving and responsive. In a similar way, the ability to apologize is the most important power a man can utilize. WHY MEN DON’T APOLOGIZE One of the reasons men don’t apologize more in relationships with women is that apologies to women don’t work—or at least men don’t think they work. On Mars, when a man says he is sorry, he is saying he made a mistake. The other man happily accepts his apology. He feels, Okay, now that you admit you are wrong and I am right, we can be friends again. If there is a problem on Mars, it is usually the end of the discussion when one person finally apologizes. On Venus it is the opposite. When you say you are sorry, the discussion begins. When a man says he is sorry to a woman, she will proceed to tell him in great detail why he should be feeling sorry. To find forgiveness, a woman needs to talk about her feelings until she feels that a man understands why she is upset. He becomes very frustrated with this response because he expects his apology to be the end of the discussion. When 118 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. she starts talking, he feels that his apology did no good. When his apology doesn’t work, he does the next best thing he knows. He tries to make her feel better by explaining why she doesn’t need to be upset. On his planet, if you have a good explanation, then the other person feels better right away. If I am late for a meeting on Mars, I explain that there was an accident on the bridge and I was stopped for forty-five minutes. The other Martians feel better immediately. If I said I was stopped for two hours in gridlock, they would feel even better. If I said, “My daughter accidentally cut herself and I had to rush her to the hospital,” they would not be upset with me at all. On Mars, the better the explanation, the better the person listening feels and the more forgiving he becomes. EXPLANATIONS DON’T WORK ON VENUS On Venus it is different. Explanations can make things worse. When a man gives a good explanation, he assumes that it should make a woman feel better right away. It has the opposite effect. She hears that he thinks she doesn’t have the right to be upset. On Venus, before a woman feels better, she first needs to feel that the man understands that she has a valid right to be upset. She cannot simply accept his explanation as a means of making her feel better; she needs first to talk about how it made her feel. She wants to be understood; then she is ready to do the forgiving. She doesn’t even need a good explanation. She just needs to feel that he truly understands why she is upset. These are some examples of Martian explanations and how Venusians may react: STAGE FIVE: ENGAGEMENT / 119 HE SAYS “I’m sorry that I was late. There was a huge accident on the bridge. The traffic was terrible. It was so hot and it took so long, I was stuck behind this huge truck…” “I’m sorry I got mad at you, but you were so critical of me. You said…” “I’m sorry I didn’t call you back. I’m under a lot of pressure at work. You wouldn’t believe the deadline I have to finish this project. I just don’t know what to do…” “I’m sorry that I forgot to get the tickets for the symphony. The weather was just so good I thought we could go sailing instead. This is the best time of the year to go sailing…” SHE HEARS “I have a good reason for being late, so you shouldn’t be so upset about this. You should be happy that I made it here at all.” “You were being so critical of me; You made the mistake, so you should be apologizing to me.” “You shouldn’t be upset with me; instead you should feel sorry for me. I’m under so much pressure at work.” “You shouldn’t be upset with me; my idea of going sailing is a better idea. You should be happy with this plan.” 120 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. HE SAYS “I’m sorry that I left you for a while at the party. I didn't think you would feel left out. I was just talking with some old friends. I certainly didn’t mean to hurt you. I thought…” “I’m really sorry about the things I said. I was just really offended by the way you spoke to me. When you said…” SHE HEARS “You shouldn’t be so sensitive. If you were normal you would not have felt so hurt. I didn’t do anything wrong. I was just talking with some old friends.” “There was no good reason for the way you spoke to me. I said some mean things, but not any worse than you. You were the one who started it…” To become more adept in the art of apology, a man needs to remember that with women explanations don’t work. There is another approach that works like a magic charm. THE ART OF APOLOGIZING TO A WOMAN The art of apologizing to a woman has three steps. 1. Say You Are Sorry When a woman is upset she first wants to hear that you are sorry. When you say you are sorry it signals to her that you are open to hearing her feelings. Briefly say you are sorry without giving any explanation. The least number of words creates the best effect. 2. Listen to Her Response When you say you are sorry, then she feels you care enough to give her the opportunity to talk about her feelings. STAGE FIVE: ENGAGEMENT / 121 Once she has talked about her feelings, you must be careful once again not to give any explanations or argue with her in any way. If she then wants to talk further, you should just listen to her response. If she doesn’t say anything, then you can move to step three. Listening to a woman when she is upset is not supposed to feel good. If it doesn’t feel very good to listen, that is okay. It is to be expected. Either you can choose to feel bad for a few minutes or she will make you feel bad for weeks anyway. When a woman feels upset, she needs to experience in some measure that you feel the discomfort she is feeling. 3. Respond with a “Nadjective” When you make a mistake, use a negative adjective—a “nadjective”—to describe yourself or what you did. While listening to a woman talk in steps one and two, reflect on sincerely coming up with the appropriate nadjective to describe yourself at the time you made the mistake, instead of planning an explanation. These are a few examples of different nadjectives and how they may make a woman feel. YOU SAY SHE FEELS “I’m sorry that I was late…. I You’re right. You were inconwas really inconsiderate.” siderate. Okay, you know how I feel. That feels your being late sometimes. You don’t have to be perfect. I just need you to think of me as well. I can forgive you. It wasn’t such a big deal. 122 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. YOU SAY “I’m sorry about the things I said yesterday…I thought about it and realized that I was really overreactive…” “I’m sorry I didn’t call you back sooner. You’re right; I was really insensitive.” “I’m sorry that I forgot to get the tickets. It was really selfish of me.” “I’m sorry you felt excluded at the party…. I was inconsiderate, it was really mean.” SHE FEELS That’s right, he did overreact. Wow, he is being so responsible. I am really impressed. We probably both overreacted, but he admitted it. That is really good. He really did go away and think about our conversation. He knows how I must feel…. Well, he wasn’t so awful. I can forgive him. Hmm, he really gets it. I guess he really isn’t as insensitive as I thought. Maybe he does care about me. I can forgive him for that. I don’t need him to call me all the time. It sure was. He didn’t even think of me, he just thought about himself…. Hmm, maybe he isn’t as self-absorbed as I thought. He doesn’t have to do everything I want. A relationship is give-and-take. I can forgive him. That’s right, it was inconsiderate and it was mean…. In a way, he’s really very considerate to realize that. I can forgive him. I’m sure he didn’t mean to leave me alone. STAGE FIVE: ENGAGEMENT / 123 YOU SAY SHE FEELS “I am really sorry about the He was being defensive. I things I said. I was really being thought he didn’t hear a word defensive.” I said. I guess I was wrong. He is trying to hear what I am saying. I can forgive him. At least he cares enough to try to understand me. In these six examples, the man apologized using one or more of these six nadjectives: inconsiderate, insensitive, selfish, mean, defensive, and overreactive. These are the six most important. Certainly a man can come up with others, but these will do. A woman never gets tired of hearing these nadjectives after a sincerely felt apology. It is like saying “Thank you,” “Good idea,” “That makes sense,” or “Thank you for your patience” to a man. He never gets tired of hearing these phrases. HOW TO FORGIVE A MAN Just as it is important for a man to find the right words to apologize on Venus, it is equally important for a woman to express her forgiveness in a manner that works best on Mars. Just to say “I forgive you” can be taken by some men to be a put-down. If you express a receptive attitude that accepts a man even though clearly he made a mistake, he then feels most forgiven. These are some examples of phrases that can send a man to Martian heaven: 124 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. HE SAYS YOU SAY “I’m sorry that I was late…. I was really inconsiderate.” “I’m sorry about the things I said yesterday…. I thought about it and realized that I was really overreactive…” “I’m sorry I didn’t call you back sooner…. You are right; I was really insensitive “I’m sorry that I forgot to get the tickets…. It was really selfish of me.” “I’m sorry you felt excluded at the party…. I was inconsiderate, it was really mean.” “I am really sorry about the things I said. I was really being defensive.” “It’s okay. Give me a call next time, all right?” “Apology accepted…. It wasn’t so bad. We were both upset. I appreciate that you thought about it.” “It’s fine; I just didn’t know what had happened.” At this point she is receptive to his.” explanation. “It’s all right. You owe me one. Next time let’s go to the symphony.” “It’s no big deal, but it does feel good to know that you didn’t mean to do it. I’m sure you’ll make it up to me” (said with a smile). “Thanks, you really didn’t have to say that. I appreciate that you were trying to understand.” When a woman expresses her forgiveness with any of the above phrases, it frees a man from becoming defensive and allows him to be more responsible and considerate of her needs. These are some examples of how a man responds to a woman’s forgiveness: STAGE FIVE: ENGAGEMENT / 125 SHE SAYS “It’s okay. Give me a call next time, all right?” “Apology accepted…. It wasn’t so bad. We were both upset. I appreciate that you thought about it.” “It’s fine; I just didn’t know what had happened.” “It’s all right. You owe me one. Next time let’s go to the symphony.” “It’s no big deal, but it does feel good to know that you didn’t mean to do it. I’m sure you’ll make it up to me” (said with a smile). “Thanks, you really didn’t have to say that. I appreciate that you were trying to understand.” HE THINKS Wow, she is so accepting. Well, next time I need to remember to call. That’s a reasonable request. Wow, she is being so loving. I shouldn’t get so defensive with her. Next time I will try to hear her point of view better. She is being so nice. I really appreciate that in her. I should call her more often. Umm. I really was selfish. Next time I am going to do something really nice for her. Well, it is a bigger deal than I thought. Next time I will be more considerate. She is so wonderful. Where did she come from? I love Venus. In each of these examples a woman’s forgiveness and acceptance motivate a man to continue trying to do his best in their relationship. By minimizing his mistakes, she makes him take her feelings and sensitivities more seriously. It takes 126 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. a while for a man to understand how a woman may react differently to situations. MAKING UP SO YOU DON’T BREAK UP These techniques of apology and forgiveness can be used at any time throughout the five stages, but definitely they should be practiced as a prerequisite for marriage. As the potential problems and conflicts increase, it is vitally important to know how to find resolution and compromise. Without the practiced ability to make up, you may eventually break up. If you get into the habit of apologizing for the little things, then when the more difficult situations arise it will be much easier. SINGLE AGAIN Some people who are single again may not feel the need to get married. They are divorced and their children have grown up. To them there is no apparent reason to get married. In past generations, marriage was just to raise children. They believe they can have a deep and meaningful relationship without a lifetime commitment. Likewise there are couples who do not plan to have a family. They also do not necessarily recognize the importance of getting married. In the past people got married primarily to ensure the survival and security of the family. If they are not planning a family, then why get married? As we have already explored, times have changed. Today we get married to find more than survival and security. We get married to find personal fulfillment. Certainly a couple can share a deep and meaningful relationship, but unless they eventually move to stage five, their love will not continue to grow. Romantic love requires a soul commitment to thrive. STAGE FIVE: ENGAGEMENT / 127 WHY MARRIAGE? Marriage is the acknowledgment that our partner is special to us on all levels and that we are committed to the growth of love in the relationship. Marriage is a promise that we will hold our partner as more special than anyone else for our lifetime. Without this commitment, something very important will be missing. For a woman to give a man the kind of special love, appreciation, acceptance, and trust that he wants, she must feel confident that her needs will also be met. She needs to feel that he adores, cares for, understands, and respects her so much that he will always be there for her. By settling for anything less, they will have less. The love they feel in their hearts will not have a chance to develop fully and be expressed. REAL AND LASTING LOVE The love we feel when we are engaged is not only real and lasting but also infused with hope. It is like a seed that contains the vision of possibilities for our future. It is the foundation on which we will build our lives. To nurture that seed and give it a chance to grow, we must take the time in stage five to celebrate our love. Moving through the five stages of dating could be compared to baking a cake. Mixing all the ingredients together happens during the first four stages; then, stage five is the equivalent to putting it all into the oven. For the cake to rise there needs to be enough baking time. Taking several months in stage five gives us a chance not only to feel the warmth of our love but to make it solid. Finding true and lasting love doesn’t mean we will be able 128 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. to feel it all the time. Everything in the world moves in cycles. Night follows day, the tide moves out and then in, what goes up eventually comes down. Likewise, when the heart opens it also closes. The commitment of marriage helps us each time to open our hearts once again. Each time we act and react in a manner that will keep this commitment of the soul, we once again open our hearts and align ourselves with our highest purpose. HOW WE EXPRESS OUR SOUL The desire to share our lives with someone is the expression of our soul. In practical terms, it is our soul remembering its highest purpose. By making a commitment to fulfill that purpose, we align ourselves with the power within us to be successful not only in our marriage but in our lives as well. When we can make decisions from an open heart, then we are able to create a better life. In spiritual terms, the desire to be married is our soul remembering the sacred promise we are here to keep. It is God’s will within us being felt. When we fully commit ourselves to keeping that promise we align ourselves with God’s will. All of the pieces in our lives begin to fit together when our hearts are open. By keeping our promise to love and cherish our partner above all else, we are able to open our hearts again and again. By making sure we keep our soul’s promise, we are able to bring the spiritual into the material world. When we live in love, we bring the kingdom of heaven on earth. STAGE FIVE: ENGAGEMENT / 129 THE SEED OF GREATNESS The seed of greatness is our ability to know, speak, and keep our word or our truth. One power is physically to keep our word by doing what we say we will do. Another power is emotionally to support the people we care about most. Another power is to uphold and live in accordance with what we believe to be right and just. The highest power is to act, feel, and think from an open heart. When our hearts are open, we are able to act in accordance with our highest purpose, which is to love. When we can do what we say we are going to do, we gradually find the power to manifest our dreams. When we can express the best of who we are, we gradually create the good fortune to attract in our lives all the opportunities we need. When we can act, feel, and think in accordance with what our soul wants to do, we can manifest greatness in our everyday lives. By keeping our soul’s promise, we infuse our lives with meaning, grace, and purpose. Marriage is the acknowledgment of that promise, and making sure a marriage works is the fulfillment of one of our soul’s highest purposes. By making this commitment, we harness our inner power to make love last in our lives. 8 Making It Through the Five Stages When either partner skips the earlier stages of dating, this can make it more difficult to get married. To get through the five stages of dating, it is important to respect the whole process. Each stage creates certain opportunities and challenges. The positive experience of each stage provides the basis for successfully meeting the challenges of the next stage. In school, it would have been very frustrating to take advanced algebra courses without first learning the multiplication tables. In a similar way, there is great wisdom in fully preparing yourself in each stage before moving on. Without a clear understanding of the five stages, it is tempting to skip a stage, particularly when the challenges of that stage begin to show up. Instead of facing the challenges of stage one, a person might skip ahead to experience the benefits and promises of the next stage. The problem is that when the challenges of the next stage surface, a person is 130 MAKING IT THROUGH THE FIVE STAGES / 131 unprepared and tends either to lose interest or to go backward. For example, in stage one, because we don’t want to experience the possibility of rejection or failure, we may move too quickly into stage two, uncertainty. As a result, in the initial period of dating, we become overly picky before pursuing or flirting with a potential partner. Instead of being open to what a person can offer, we begin to test a person too soon. We are looking for certainty that this is the right person with whom to be exclusive instead of just having a good time dating. Quite commonly, people skip stage two. Instead of risking the loss of a partner because they are not sure, they just move right into the higher stages. Instead of taking some time to test the relationship before getting more intimately involved, they panic and give in to the pressure of not knowing and behave as if they know for sure. Instead of feeling secure that a man is the right man for her, a woman skips ahead by trying to prove to him that she is right for him. When the man feels uncertain, he may feel the pressure to show how committed he is as a way to impress her when in truth he is not ready. As they get more involved, they will both have a tendency to go back to uncertainty. He may tend to become indifferent and distant, while her tendency will be to become more needy and hungry for reassurance. When a woman reacts to a man in stage one (attraction) as if she were in stage five (engagement), it is as inappropriate as it would be to ask a man on the first date how many people he wants to invite to the wedding, or how many children he wants to have. In most cases, when a woman reacts as if she were in a higher stage, that will make it more difficult for a man to progress though the stages. 132 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. The appropriate response when one falls in love in stage one is to stay in stage one and restrain yourself from reacting and responding to your partner in a manner that would be automatic in stage five. Then, after a few more dates, move into stage two (uncertainty) and try to maintain a sense of uncertainty. Even if her heart is jumping for joy or he wants to fly to Vegas to get married, they should proceed slowly, with caution, and let the relationship pass the test of time. If you are quick to fall in love, be careful to proceed slowly and let the relationship pass the test of time. A woman needs to remember that she is the jewel and a man provides the right setting for her to shine. Instead of focusing on pleasing him because he makes her so happy, she needs to let him continue to please her with his actions. Instead of stopping her life for him, she needs to let him demonstrate his interest by making adjustments in his schedule for her. A woman is the jewel and a man provides the right setting for her to shine. When a woman allows a man to make little sacrifices for her, he begins to feel that she is more special. She does not have to do anything to earn his interest. He is already interested. The more he gives and she graciously receives, the more interested he becomes. Without this insight, a woman can unknowingly prevent a man from wanting more of her by giving too much in reaction, being too eager to please, too enthusiastic, too accommodating, and too available. When a MAKING IT THROUGH THE FIVE STAGES / 133 man feels he is winning a woman, she becomes increasingly attractive. He is able to find the necessary motivation to move on to the next stage. WHEN A WOMAN MOVES FASTER When a woman falls in love and behaves as if she is completely won over, as she would be in stage five of a relationship, a man will tend to stay in whatever stage he is in. There is no motivation to move ahead. When a woman moves faster through the stages, a man will tend to put on the brakes. On Mars there is a very strong belief and instinctive tendency not to deviate from a formula that works. If throwing the ball a certain way wins the prize, then why risk changing? “Don’t fix it if it isn’t broken” is a fundamental Martian strategy. Women do not realize this difference, because on Venus it is just the opposite. If something works well, then they think, Let’s see how we can make it better. When a relationship is giving a woman everything she wants, she is motivated to make it even better, but a man thinks, Okay, I can relax; I must be doing enough. On Mars there is a very strong belief and instinctive tendency not to deviate from a formula that works. When a women reacts to a man as if she is in stage five and he is not, he will not be as motivated to move on to the next stage. He will tend to relax and stay put in whatever stage he is in. This is true whenever a woman reacts strongly in a stage beyond the stage he is in. Let’s explore a few of the possible examples. 134 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. IF HE IS IN STAGE FOUR (INTIMACY) and she reacts as if she is in stage five (engagement), then he might feel, Why should we do anything to upset the applecart? Everything is fine. Let’s not change anything. In this case, her being in a higher stage may prevent him from feeling the depth of longing, deep in his soul, necessary for him to decide that he wants to share his whole life with her. As a result, he may never feel a need to propose and become engaged. IF HE IS IN STAGE THREE (EXCLUSIVITY) and she reacts to him as if she is in stage four (intimacy) or stage five (engagement), then his reaction might be, This relationship will be just fine for a while. Although he remains exclusively committed, he is not wanting more. His tendency will be to coast and take her for granted. He will have a greater tendency to give up doing all the little romantic things he did in the earlier stages. This passivity will cause him to keep noticing other women and eventually prevent her from feeling her love for him. When her bubble bursts, they will tend to go their separate ways. IF HE IS IN STAGE TWO (UNCERTAINTY) and she reacts to him as if she is in stage three, four, or five, then his reaction might be, I sure don’t want to disappoint her or hurt her; I’d better not call. I don’t want to lead her on. Or he might think, She expects a lot. I don’t think I’m ready for that. Although it is perfectly normal for a man in stage two to doubt a woman, if she is reacting from a higher stage, his desire to become exclusive will be influenced by the imminent possibility of hurting her if he were to end the relationship or of disappointing her if he did move on to the next stage. MAKING IT THROUGH THE FIVE STAGES / 135 The sad truth here is that the more he likes her, the more he will avoid getting involved because he might eventually hurt her. Yet if her reaction to him is also uncertainty, he does not have to worry about eventually hurting her if he were eventually to become exclusive and then break up. This freedom assists him in finding the confidence necessary to explore a relationship in the next stage, exclusivity. The sad truth is that the more a man likes a woman, the more he will avoid getting involved because he might eventually hurt her. Let’s look at a more extreme example. If a woman is desperately in love with a man or hopelessly dependent on him, the man is obviously going to think something like this: She seems so sure that I am the one for her. Well, I don’t know. If I get involved more, I could be leading her on by feeding her hopes. She would really be devastated. I like her too much to do that to her. I don’t think this is the right relationship for me. I’m not ready for this. On the other hand, if a woman seems open at first to a man’s advances and then later seems a little unsure about moving on to stage three, she becomes more attractive to him. If he is the one convincing her, he will not have to feel so bad if the relationship doesn’t turn out well. When he doesn’t have to worry about how difficult it will be to get out of a relationship, a man is much more inclined to get involved. When a woman seems unsure and the man feels he is convincing her, then he can relax, knowing that if things don’t 136 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. work out and he stops convincing her, she will not want him. This actually frees him to make the commitment. A woman would not think this, because if she feels she has to persuade a man to love her, then when she wants to relax and be taken care of, he may not find that he loves her. This is just another reason why throughout the five stages men are to pursue and women are to create the opportunity to be pursued. IF HE IS IN STAGE ONE (ATTRACTION) and she reacts as if she is in stage two (uncertainty), it can have the effect of making her seem too difficult. He may think, How can she reject me when she doesn’t even know me? She must not be the right kind of woman for me, or, She is too critical or judgmental for me. If she reacts as if she is in stage three (exclusivity), she may easily compromise her value to him. Imagine that you went house shopping and found a house you liked and the seller said, “You like it? It’s yours. You pay me whatever you like.” The chances of getting a respectable offer are very low. This situation is similar to the old joke by Groucho Marx, “I wouldn’t want to belong to any club that would accept me as a member.” However you look at it, when a woman sells herself cheap, she comes out looking easy. If a woman reacts as if she is in stage four or five, it can cause a man to get really close and then back off. The promise of intimacy makes a woman very attractive, but the experience of too much intimacy can easily cause a man to lose interest. Even the best dessert can make you sick if you eat too much. A woman’s challenge is to reveal herself in stages, not all at once. WHEN A MAN MOVES FASTER If a man behaves as if he is completely won over, it can be easier for the couple to move through the five stages, but still MAKING IT THROUGH THE FIVE STAGES / 137 he runs the risk of turning her off. Quite often a man will be so persistent that he will smother a woman in promises. Although he is tempting and she feels flattered, she tends to mistrust him. She cannot be assured that he loves her because she knows he doesn’t really know her. She knows he hasn’t seen her on a bad hair day. A woman needs to trust that she can get what she needs in a relationship. She is not easily impressed by a man’s strong feelings. On Venus they tend instinctively to know that feelings are always changing. She needs assurance that his feelings will not change as they really get to know each other. Taking the time to react and behave appropriately for each stage of the relationship will ensure that a man can nurture in a woman the trust she needs to feel before moving to the next stage. Let’s explore a few examples. IF SHE IS IN STAGE FOUR (INTIMACY) and he behaves as if he is in stage five (engagement), then she might become turned off and think, He is acting as if we were married and I haven’t even agreed. I don’t feel that he will be supportive of my needs if I marry him. He doesn’t even consider my feelings. In this case, his acting as if they are engaged can turn her off and prevent her feeling that she can fully surrender herself to this relationship. Before a woman responds with a yes to his proposal, she needs to feel that her feelings will be respected. IF SHE IS IN STAGE THREE (EXCLUSIVITY) and he behaves as if they are in stage four (intimacy) or stage five (engagement), then her reaction may be, He wants too much from me; I’m not ready to share this much. I’m starting to feel obligated to do more. I don’t know if I can give him everything he 138 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. wants. I’m still just getting to know him. I’m not ready. Although a woman greatly appreciates a man’s attention and his desire to be with her, when he comes on too strong she may become like a Martian and want her space. When a man’s advances consistently make a woman feel she is not ready, her tendency to move on is restricted. As a woman begins to experience that she can and will get the support she needs, then she will become ready to move on to the next stage. IF SHE IS IN STAGE TWO (UNCERTAINTY) and he behaves as if he is in stage three, four, or five, then her reaction might be, How can he want me so much? He doesn’t even know me. When he really gets to know me he will leave me. I don’t want to be hurt. I don’t want to get my hopes up. He thinks I am so perfect and I’m not. I can’t trust his instincts. Although it is perfectly normal to doubt a man, when he comes on too strong, it can prevent a woman from trusting him enough to move on to an exclusive relationship. Once again, the sad truth is that the more he likes her the more she will pull away and mistrust him simply because he doesn’t realize the importance of respecting each of the stages. When a woman senses that a man is making sure he is the right person for her, then that attitude helps her find the assurance she needs in order to move on to an exclusive relationship. Quite often men complain to me that women are not attracted to nice guys but that they get involved with guys who don’t even seem to care. First of all, it is a myth that women don’t get involved with nice guys. How many women whisper to a friend before they walk down the aisle, “I am so excited…. He’s such a jerk”? MAKING IT THROUGH THE FIVE STAGES / 139 It is a myth that women don’t get involved with nice guys. One of the reasons men think women don’t like nice guys is that when women reject men they almost always say, “You’re nice, but I would just like to be friends.” It is easy to conclude that women reject nice guys. Every time a nice guy is rejected, he then mistakenly assumes it is because he was nice. This experience is compounded by the recurring situation of a woman complaining about a past relationship. If she is complaining, then she tends to focus on what a jerk the guy was. So once again a nice guy can’t figure women out and wonders why she got so involved with a jerk. The answer to this question is that when she first met him she thought he was nice. Women like nice guys, but they are turned off when a man seems too nice. When a woman is in stage one or two and a man behaves as if he is in stage three, four, or five, then she can easily lose interest. She feels he wants too much, he expects too much, and he gives too much, so she feels obligated to give back more than she is ready to. If he is too nice, then she is afraid of getting involved and hurting him. If he is really nice, she may also feel afraid that when he finds out that she is not always as nice as he, he will abandon her. When women seem to be attracted to men who “don’t really care,” it is because these men are clearly in stage one or two, which is the appropriate stage to begin a relationship. When a man pursues a woman but is not yet sure about exclusivity and beyond, it can make him very attractive. He is attractive to her because for a woman to open up and get to know a man she must also feel it is safe to back out and be unsure. When a man comes on really strong, it 140 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. can make a woman feel she doesn’t have the right to feel uncertain. As a result, she never gets the chance to find the assurance from within herself that she is ready to move into an exclusive relationship. WHEN A WOMAN IS IN STAGE ONE (ATTRACTION) and a man behaves as if he is uncertain, then she may feel, He must not care that much. Even though I am attracted to him, I’m tired of giving out my card; I want a man to pursue me. Other times she may feel, Maybe he’s just really shy; I’ll flirt with him, and if he still doesn’t ask for my number I’ll give him my card. In either case, his being uncertain will prevent her from feeling more receptive to him. In some cases it may prompt her to pursue him, and then inevitably the attraction will dissipate. When she is in stage one and he behaves as if he is in stage three, four, or five, once again it is very hard for her to trust him. She senses that he needs so much from her that she is turned off. Or she may sense that he wants her so much that if she were to say no he would be hurt. She then feels protective of him, similar to how a woman feels protective of a child, and the attraction is automatically lessened. This is when she wants to be just friends. In all of these examples, a couple’s ability to move through the five stages is restricted when one partner is too eager. It can also be that both partners are too eager and they skip stages together. This does not necessarily mean that they will not make it through all the stages, but it does mean that they will not gain the insights and ability necessary to build a strong foundation for the relationship to grow. They may even get married, but because they were not prepared, the inevitable problems and challenges that arise will be more difficult to deal with. MAKING IT THROUGH THE FIVE STAGES / 141 In general, men tend to become passive when women give more to the relationship, while women tend to be mistrustful and close up when a man gives too much. Neither men nor women should withhold their affections and responsiveness to each other, as long as they are appropriate to the stage of dating. Since everything these days is so fast, we tend to move too fast in dating. We must be careful not to give much more than our partner is giving. For all the reasons listed above, it becomes clear why so many people today have such a hard time getting together. LIVING IN THE PROMISE Quite commonly, a woman makes the mistake of anticipating what a man will give her if she is loving to him. In a sense, she lives in the promise of getting his love, and so she becomes more loving. If someone you trusted told you that you had just won a million dollars, you would probably become really excited. You would feel like a millionaire. After calling to make sure the check was on the way, you would probably go out and begin spending some of your money. You would begin acting like a millionaire. If you discovered later that it was just a hoax and you were not a millionaire, not only would you be disappointed, but you would also be in debt. When a woman lives in the promise of a man’s love, because she believes that she will get what she needs, she is happy to give in advance. The more she gives in advance, the happier she becomes because she assumes she will get it all in return. When she gives in advance and not in response to what he has given, then it has the effect of making him less interested. 142 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. It is a mistake to believe that if she turns him on, fulfills his every need, and happily accommodates his wishes, he will do the same for her. Some women are taught that for a woman to get a man to love her, she should be pleased by everything he does, wait on him hand and foot, and laugh at all his jokes. Although this might work if he did this for her, when a woman gives in this way, she unknowingly lessens the attraction. Men can also live in the promise. A man can fall in love with a woman and feel that he is the right man for her, that he holds the key to her ultimate happiness. Because he anticipates making her so happy, he behaves as if she is perfect. He behaves as if he is certain that he can make her happy. As we have discussed, when a man’s behavior is too strong and he promises too much too quickly, it can backfire and cause a woman to close up. By taking the time to move together through the five stages of dating, both men and women can minimize the illusions of living in the promise. By overcoming the challenges of each of the stages, we can learn the necessary lessons of love. 9 When the Clock Keeps Ticking and He’s Not Wearing a Watch Quite often a woman will feel the pressure to get married when her partner is happy to stay in stage four. She may hear the clock ticking because she wants to get married and have children and her childbearing years are running out, or she may just feel that something is missing in their relationship if they don’t get married. As we have already discussed, many men don’t realize the importance of going all the way emotionally by getting married; if they are going all the way physically, they are satisfied. After all, he thinks he is getting everything he wants, so why should he risk moving on to the next stage? He doesn’t know that by making a lifelong commitment to her not only would he get more on an emotional level, but she would get what she needed as well. Marriage is to women what sex is to men. If a woman told a man she only wanted to go to second base with him, he 143 144 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. would instinctively feel something was missing. He would want to go all the way sexually. Similarly, a woman wants to go all the way emotionally and get married. It is a common tragedy—a woman wants to get married and a man doesn’t want to make that step. Marriage is to women what sex is to men. When a woman is ready for stage five and a man stays in stage four, at a certain point the woman will make the mistake of either passively accepting his wants by denying her need to get married, or demanding that he marry her. Neither approach tends to work, as men don’t respond well to ultimatums. Besides, what woman feels thrilled when her partner gives in to her pressure and agrees to marry her? A marriage proposal, just like a woman’s acceptance of the proposal, should be a free and joyful expression of our heart’s desire, not an obligation. Men don’t respond well to ultimatums; a marriage proposal should be the free and joyful expression of our heart’s desire. Fortunately, there is another alternative to giving an ultimatum or denying one’s need: a woman can move back a stage. Instead of being in stage five and demanding that her partner move on with her, she can move back to stage four—intimacy—and share how she feels in a nondemanding way without blaming him. Men respond much better when they are seen not as the problem but as the solution. Men respond much better when they are seen not as the problem but as the solution. WHEN THE CLOCK KEEPS TICKING AND HE’S NOT WEARING A Margarette was thirty-four and had been dating Stephen for three years. She realized, however, that she had been responding to Stephen as if they were happily married although he had not even proposed. With an understanding of how she had contributed to the problem, she was able to share with him her feelings in a nonblaming manner. She shared her feelings with Stephen: Recently I have had a lot of uncomfortable feelings. I realized that I am starting to doubt whether we will ever get married. I hope that someday I will get married, but I am starting to feel as if that may never happen. In my heart I feel that you are the one for me, but now I am starting to doubt that. I do not want to pressure you into doing anything that you don’t want to do; I just need you to know why sometimes I am feeling distant. One part of me loves you very much and another part of me is not sure that I want to continue our relationship. After a few conversations like this, Stephen surprised Margarette with a marriage proposal on a romantic occasion. If Margarette had given him an ultimatum or threatened to leave him, he might never have proposed. By releasing her demands and clearly communicating her feelings, Margarette created the opportunity for Stephen to solve the problem. WHAT TO DO WHEN YOU HAVE MOVED TOO FAST If you have moved too quickly through the stages, the solution is generally to move back to the appropriate stage. This is easier said than done. Exercise caution; an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. When you have moved 146 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. ahead too fast and you decide to move back, your partner may feel that you are taking something away. This can in itself create new problems. When a man has been very attentive to a woman and he pulls back to stage one or two, it can hurt her a lot. Likewise, when a woman has been physically intimate with a man and she pulls back, he can easily feel that he is being unfairly punished. In both cases, a mutual understanding of the wisdom of the stages can make this necessary transition easier. It is best, however, to think ahead and not move too quickly in the first place. A clear awareness of each of the stages assists us in making the decision to move back and express ourselves in an appropriate stage. Also, when our partner has advanced too far we have the language and understanding to ask him or her to slow down. It is quite common in matters of love to be so enthusiastic that we make mistakes. Wise people forgive themselves or their partners for these mistakes and try again. HOW TO AVOID DIVORCE Although most single couples are unaware of this formula, it is applied all the time to save marriages. When a married couple plan to get a divorce they are generally advised to separate for several months before doing so. In some states it is even a law that before a couple can get a divorce they must first separate for six months. Quite often during that time they reconsider and decide not to get a divorce. Separation is just moving back to an earlier stage. A separated couple may go back to stage one and date others as if they were not married at all. Sometimes after dating others for several months they decide to get back together. By movWHEN THE CLOCK KEEPS TICKING AND HE’S NOT WEARING A ing back to an earlier stage of dating they get something they were missing and are now able to make their marriage work. When married couples separate, they are moving back to an earlier stage of dating. At other times couples agree to live separately but not to date others. This is like going back to stage two, uncertainty. They live on their own without looking for others to date and consider if they want to get back together. They occasionally go out and explore how it feels to be together without being so dependent on each other. Eventually they may decide to move on to the next stage and get back together, or they may split up. Other couples may decide to separate and date each other again as if they are in stage three or stage four. When this is the case it is particularly difficult for a woman to connect with her loving and romantic feelings if she doesn’t have the opportunity to experience greater emotional intimacy. Similarly, a man needs to experience intimacy on the physical level of the relationship in order to experience his loving and romantic feelings. To ignite romantic feelings a woman needs emotional intimacy while a man needs physical intimacy. Certainly a woman should open up sexually only to the degree to which she is comfortable. However, accommodating a man’s needs to is very helpful in making sure that he has a chance to open his heart again. A man should not expect a woman to be as responsive as she once was, and should be grateful that she is willing to accommodate his needs. 148 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Meanwhile, he must make some sacrifices to accommodate her need to experience emotional intimacy. She will need to talk about the problems she has experienced throughout their marriage. While this may be difficult for him, he should give her the opportunity to share her feelings, and he should listen nondefensively. She should not expect him to be thrilled by this requirement, but should be grateful that he is willing to do his best to accommodate her needs. Quite often going to a marriage counselor can make this process much easier. The more she can talk freely, the more she will be able to feel her love again. By making a deliberate effort to accommodate each other’s needs at this difficult time they can reignite the love and passion they used to feel. However, going backward is always more difficult than going forward. If couples initially take the time to move through the stages, they can create a solid foundation so their house will not get cracks. By devoting time to overcoming the challenges of each of the five stages they can avoid having to face divorce. WHEN TO KEEP MOVING BACK When a woman wants to get married and her partner is resist-ant—and moving back to stage four doesn’t work—she should move back to stage three; if that doesn’t work, she should move back to stage two or even one. By moving back gradually she and her partner can experience the earlier stages of the growth of love. In this way a man can gain the strength and clarity to either end the relationship in a positive manner or make a marriage proposal. It will also give the woman the strength and clarity to either end the relationship if he doesn’t propose or respond with a big yes if he does. WHEN THE CLOCK KEEPS TICKING AND HE’S NOT WEARING A In order to move back to stage three, a woman would have to let her partner know that she didn’t feel the relationship was going where she was going. She would need to let him know that she loved him but that she did not want to be as open and vulnerable to him. She would see him less and just focus on how she could respond to what he gave her in the most loving way she could. WHEN SHE REJECTS HIS PROPOSAL If, however, she moves back to stage three and he does eventually realize that he wants to marry her, she may suddenly feel resentful that he took so long to propose and then reject him. Although she moved back to stage three so that he might propose, when he does she suddenly has a change of heart. She feels either angry with him or uncertain. Instead of being receptive to his proposal, she rejects him. While on Mars this doesn’t make sense, on Venus it does. Sometimes a woman is so concerned about getting a man’s love that she doesn’t realize how hurt she feels to be rejected. She automatically suppresses her hurt and resentment. When he finally does give her the love she wants, she is suddenly faced with a surge of resentment and hurt or just feels a temporary numbness. These feelings must be handled very delicately. With this new insight into the five stages, she can see beyond her immediate reactions and realize that it is her hurt talking and not her heart. If she doesn’t say yes to his proposal, she should as least ask him to propose again in a month. By taking some time to explore her feelings she can release her temporary feelings of hurt and resentment and find the deeper soul love in her heart. 150 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. With this new insight a woman can see beyond her immediate reactions and realize that it is her hurt talking and not her heart. When Raj first met Tina, he fell in love with her. He knew that she was his soul mate. They were very passionate and within a few weeks were in stage four. He had never felt so deeply in love. But it was too much too fast, and Raj found himself pulling back. He was feeling uncertain and started to have doubts. Tina, who had been swept off her feet by his love, was now feeling deeply hurt. She called Raj, but he didn’t return her calls. Months later, Raj realized that he had made a mistake. He wanted Tina back and tried calling her, but now she wouldn’t return his calls. Each time he called she would listen to his messages and feel her hurt. Fortunately, during counseling Tina was able to learn that she felt that hurt because she still loved him. She had resisted getting involved again because she didn’t trust his love. She felt, “How could he really love me if he could pull away so easily? He was so cold and indifferent to me.” By understanding the five stages, Tina was able to understand how she had also contributed to the problem. She learned that by going more slowly this time she could trust his love. She learned that Raj had pulled back because he had gotten close too quickly, not because he didn’t love her. Raj and Tina were lucky to get back together. Without this understanding, many men and women bounce back and forth and miss each other. MOVING BACK TO STAGE TWO: UNCERTAINTY When a woman moves back to stage three and her partner does not propose, after a few months she will generally begin WHEN THE CLOCK KEEPS TICKING AND HE’S NOT WEARING A to doubt that he is the right one for her. This is the time to move back to stage two, uncertainty. To make this shift she might share her feelings like this: “I am sorry that I don’t love you the way I did. I know I love you, but because you don’t want to get married, I am closing down. I don’t trust that you are the one for me. I need to pull back into myself to decide what to do. I am not ready to date others. I would still like to date you if you call, but I need more time on my own. I am just not sure.” By making this transition and taking this time to be in stage two, she will benefit in two ways. The First Benefit of Uncertainty The first benefit is that it connects her to the truth that he may not be the right person for her. This awareness can give her the clarity, strength, and courage to break off from him in a positive manner. Instead of feeling cheated she will eventually feel grateful that she didn’t marry the wrong person. There is no better way to complete a relationship than with positive feelings of gratitude. If she does not feel grateful for his inability to commit, then she has not yet accepted that he is not the one for her. She is still blaming him. As we have already discussed, this negative attitude may prevent her from moving on to find the right person for her. By giving herself the permission to feel uncertain and doubt him, she will eventually understand why he is also uncertain about getting married. This understanding will allow her to forgive him. From this place of forgiveness she is much more discerning in knowing who is right for her. The Second Benefit of Uncertainty The second benefit of moving back to stage two is that a woman gives her partner the space he needs to determine if 152 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. he is the right person for her. By creating more distance between them, she gives him a chance to experience how much he loves her. Quite often a man feels how much he loves a woman when he is directly faced with the possibility of losing her. Quite often a man feels his love when he is directly faced with the possibility of losing a woman. When she takes on the position of being uncertain, it frees him to find the certainty in him. Quite often a woman can unknowingly prevent a man from feeling his desire to be with her because she desires him too much. By being too interested, she can actually take away his desire and make him less interested. As she takes the time to feel uncertain, he will suddenly become more definite about the relationship. Either he will realize that she is the one for him or he will realize that she is not and break off the relationship. In either case the result is greater clarity for both of them. WHY A MAN’S FEELINGS CHANGE Often, a man will realize how important a woman is to him after she rejects him. This is not necessarily because he has a neurotic need to feel in control or because he has low self-esteem and seeks the love of a woman who doesn’t love him; it is simply because he needs distance to feel his longing and desire. When a woman gets too close to a man, he doesn’t have the opportunity to feel his desire. When couples move too quickly to experience intimacy, a man doesn’t experience again and again how much he wants WHEN THE CLOCK KEEPS TICKING AND HE’S NOT WEARING A to be with a woman. In some cases he will realize how special she is to him only when she backs off and stops pursuing him. Quite often a man will pull back and then—once the woman has let go—he springs back with greater desire and love. A man will pull back, and once the woman has let go he springs back with greater desire and love. This reaction is very confusing to a woman. When he comes back, she feels it is too late. She is unable to bend back to him because it is hard to believe that his sudden rush of love is real. She feels hurt and is afraid of getting hurt again; she thinks that if she goes back he will just lose his newfound interest. Without understanding how she contributed to the problem, she cannot trust that his love will be lasting. Understanding of the five stages gives her the insight necessary to overcome her fear of intimacy and open her heart to trust his love. Once she clearly understands how she contributed to the problem, she can make sure it doesn’t happen again. Instead of feeling like a victim at the whim of her partner’s changing feelings, she feels assured that she has the power to get what she needs. She can trust her partner’s love when she feels the power to create the right conditions for their love to grow. Instead of feeling like a victim at the whim of her partner’s changing feelings, a woman can feel self-assured. 154 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. With this deeper understanding, a woman does not have to reject a man to create the distance for him to fall in love with her. If they have moved ahead too quickly, she can recognize her mistake and begin moving back through the stages. By slowly moving backward she can create the required distance without having to break up or threaten to break up. While this is not the ideal procedure, it is better than having to break up again and again until she learns to allow love to grow more slowly. Perhaps the man wants get married and the woman is not ready. As we have already discussed, he should just move back to stage four and share his feelings in an intimate but nondemanding manner. If this doesn’t work, he should slowly move back through the stages, being careful not to hurt his partner’s feelings. Remember that this is a very delicate situation and should be handled with great sensitivity and consideration. Whether he is moving back or she is, reading Mars and Venus on a Date together or getting the assistance of a relationship counselor can make this process much easier. 10 Men Are Like Blowtorches, Women Are Like Ovens When Martians and Venusians get together without understanding that they come from different planets, it is quite easy for a woman to misinterpret a man’s interest and experience repeated frustration and disappointment. Often a man will suddenly become physically attracted to a woman and then just as quickly lose interest. He is like a blowtorch that can heat up really fast and then turn off in an instant. This Martian tendency is easily misinterpreted because women are not like blowtorches. Women are like ovens. They slowly heat up and slowly cool off. A man’s physical attraction heats up right away, while a woman takes more time. A woman assumes that if a man is physically attracted to her, he is also interested in pursuing a relationship with her. 155 156 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. She confuses his attention, interest, and attraction with affection or love. When this “love” is not lasting and he quickly loses interest, a woman can easily feel disappointed and unnecessarily begin to mistrust men. Unless she learns how men and women think and feel differently, she may become closed to men and thus limit her chances of finding the right man for her. Without this crucial understanding, dating for many women is a very dissatisfying and discouraging experience. Women commonly confuse a man’s interest as the intention to pursue a relationship. Certainly when a man is attentive to a woman, he could also be interested in having a relationship with her, but quite often he is not that discerning. To a certain extent, when he is enamored of a woman, he just likes what he sees and he wants to touch. Then he behaves in ways that most women mistakenly assume to be clear signs and signals that he is interested in having a relationship. A MAN’S PASSIONS Without even considering what kind of person a woman is, a man can feel a strong, passionate desire to be with her. Then, once he gets to know her, he may find that he doesn’t even like her, nor is he interested in getting to know her better. Yet when he sees her he feels a strong physical chemistry and will do almost anything for the opportunity to be with her, impress her, and make her happy. As he gets to know her, his interest and affection may quickly dissipate. This is commonly known as the morning-after syndrome. One day she is beautiful and radiant in every way; the next MEN ARE LIKE BLOWTORCHES, WOMEN ARE LIKE OVENS / 157 day, after a closer look, her toes are too big. Once he gets to know her, his passion dissipates, he finds something wrong with her or realizes that she is not the one for him, and he moves on. He has no idea that she thinks they are about to get married. Anyone on his planet would know that he was just physically attracted, but someone from Venus could easily misunderstand his intentions and think he was promising much more. A WOMAN’S PASSIONS A man’s strong physical passion, interest, and attention are easily misunderstood because women come to relationships the other way around. Women are first attracted to some aspect of who a man is and not just his body. A woman first feels interested in getting to know a man, then she feels affection, and then she feels strong physical attraction and desire. The more a woman feels mentally and emotionally attracted to a man, the more physical chemistry she will begin to feel. Since this is her experience, she mistakenly assumes that when a man is physically attracted to her, he must be mentally and emotionally attracted as well. It is hard for a woman to understand how men could be so different, but they are. On Mars, they are first attracted by the physical. The more physically attractive a woman is to a man, the less he needs to think or discern. He automatically behaves as if she is the most special woman in the world, and she believes it. He is just being in the moment and feeling his attraction. What she doesn’t know is that the next day he could be with someone who turns him on and feel the exact same feelings of attraction. Without this understanding of our differences, women assume that men are either deceptive or just superficial. 158 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. WHY VERY ATTRACTIVE WOMEN ARE VERY ANNOYED The more physically attractive a woman is, the more annoyed she may become with men. Men who have no deep interest in her are constantly pursuing her. Although a woman may feel flattered by a man’s attentions, after a series of disappointments, it can become a source of resentment as well. These are some common frustrations of women who became sexually intimate too quickly: Jill complained, “I can’t believe the men I meet. At first they are so charming and interested and then they just turn off and you never hear from them again.” Jane said, “I can’t trust men. They are so selfish. They pretend to be very interested and then when they get what they want they are gone.” Karen shared, “I don’t even like to date anymore. When a man is so giving, I feel obligated to give him what he wants, and then I get nothing. I would rather get nothing and be alone than give myself and then get nothing.” Carolyn questioned herself: “I don’t know what I do, but as soon as a man gets to know me, he doesn’t like me. I don’t think any man could love me.” Nancy wondered, “Why is it that the men I meet are all jerks? At first they stick to you like glue and then the next morning you feel that they want to get away from you. I called one guy the next morning and he asked why I had called! I can’t even imagine saying that to someone.” Yvette asked, “Why do I attract men who only want one thing? They are always so nice in the beginning, and then after having it their way, they don’t even call.” These women have a right to be upset. They innocently responded to a man’s advances and then felt disappointed or betrayed. They felt in some ways tricked by his sudden shift in interest. What these women don’t realize is how they are MEN ARE LIKE BLOWTORCHES, WOMEN ARE LIKE OVENS / 159 also a part of the problem. In each example, the women misinterpreted a man’s behavior and mistakenly assumed they were further along the five stages of dating. To correct this problem, a woman needs to understand what makes her special to a man. Then she can proceed correctly in each of the stages of dating. Without correctly interpreting the signals, she will mistakenly conclude that she is in stage four when from his side he is still in stage one. WHAT MAKES A WOMAN SPECIAL There is something special about every woman, but what makes a woman more special to a particular man is the special chemistry he feels for her. This chemistry cannot be created. It either exists or doesn’t exist. An apple seed is an apple seed. It can’t become anything other than an apple tree. The only thing we can do is make sure we recognize its needs and give it a chance to grow. Too much water can rot the roots, while not enough will starve it. How we approach a relationship can either prevent or support the growth of attraction. We cannot create chemistry, but we can either prevent or support its growth. A woman first feels that she is special to a man when he feels physically attracted to her. A woman must remember that she is not that special, because there are a lot of women to whom a man can feel physically attracted. It is a good beginning, but it doesn’t necessarily mean anything more. To him, in that moment, she may be the ultimate woman of his dreams. In this case, he may believe and behave as though he were in love with who she is, but only time will 160 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. tell, by giving him an opportunity to get to know her. A woman becomes more special to a man when he finds that not only is he physically attracted to her, but he also likes her. There are many women to whom he can be physically attracted, but only a smaller group with whom he can also be friends. A woman becomes even more special to him when he also finds that he is mentally attracted to who she is as a person. There are only a few women for whom he can feel all three levels of chemistry. She becomes still more special when he is able to see her as an imperfect person but also lovable. Even at difficult times in their relationship, when he is not getting what he needs from her, he is able to still see the good in her and feel his love for her. This kind of unconditional love makes her very special. Then, within this very small and special group, his soul picks one to share his life. It is then that a woman is most special to a man. WHAT MAKES A MAN SPECIAL A man becomes more special to a woman in a reverse manner. She is first mentally attracted to him. She looks at some aspect of who he is and what he is doing with his life and feels some chemistry. This is the largest group of men from which she picks. Then she finds that some men are more special. She begins to feel emotional chemistry; she begins to feel affection for a man and like him as a friend as well. While there may be many men with whom she feels mental chemistry, there are fewer men who cause her to feel emotional chemistry. At this point, she may discover that she also feels a physical attraction. It might happen slowly or it might happen very suddenly. Quite often, it happens when he gives her a kiss. That one little gesture of affection can suddenly MEN ARE LIKE BLOWTORCHES, WOMEN ARE LIKE OVENS / 161 make it clear to her that he is more special. When a shy man postpones the kiss, it may actually postpone or even prevent a woman from feeling her physical chemistry for him. Sometimes it is a man’s kiss that triggers in a woman her feelings of physical attraction. Many of the traditional dating rituals between men and women are really just opportunities for a woman to assess her feelings for a man. When a man does little things for a woman, like open the door, compliment her, ask her out, plan a date, or even give her a good-night kiss, it allows her gradually to experience different levels of chemistry. WHEN WOMEN ARE ATTRACTED TO THE WRONG MEN Sometimes a woman meets a man and suddenly feels all four levels of chemistry. She particularly feels an immediate physical passion for him. This is a clear sign that this woman is attracted to her fantasy of the man and not the man himself. When this is the case, a woman needs to learn to be more discerning. If she feels strong physical attraction, she should not immediately assume that the man is right for her. Although there is a chance he could be right for her because she is turned on immediately, it is a clear sign that she does not yet know him. She is attracted to the illusion of who she thinks he is. If a woman has a history of being turned on to the wrong guys, then when she enters a room with thirty men and one man turns her on like a blowtorch, she should run the other way. If she does choose to engage in a relationship with him, she should be very careful to get to know him before she becomes intimate. 162 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. If a woman enters a room with thirty men and one man turns her on like a blowtorch, she should run the other way. This phenomenon helps explain why therapists commonly hear this comment from single women: “Whenever I’m passionately turned on to a man right away, he turns out to be the wrong one. Why do I keep picking the wrong kind of men?” These women would do well to experiment with having a relationship with a man who doesn’t turn them on right away to see if in time the passion grows. Katherine, a forty-six-yearold single businesswoman, was amazed to hear this. All her life, she had rejected men who didn’t turn her on right away. Many men had approached her, but if she didn’t feel something physical right away, she wasn’t interested. This understanding helped her realize why she had not found her soul mate. WHEN A WOMAN OPENS HER HEART After a woman begins to feel all three levels of chemistry—mental, emotional, and then physical—her heart begins to open to a man. Now she can truly experience how much love she has for this man. As they move through the fourth stage of dating and intimacy and she continues to feel an unconditional love for him, then he becomes even more special. All four levels of chemistry grow together until her heart fully opens and she can realize that he is the one for her. A man should not be discouraged if a woman is not immediately interested in a physical way. A man needs to remember that a woman is like an oven that slowly warms up. If she just wants to be friends at first, it doesn’t mean that he MEN ARE LIKE BLOWTORCHES, WOMEN ARE LIKE OVENS / 163 does not stand a chance. Quite often women who have found their soul mates say that at first they were just friends and that the romance came later. Their husbands point out that the potential for physical attraction, from their side, was almost always there. MEN FEEL PHYSICAL ATTRACTION FIRST When a man meets his soul mate, there is almost always a spark of physical attraction to start with. When it is not there, it could simply be that he doesn’t understand the importance of having standards. He simply follows his attractions and doesn’t learn to become more discerning about whom he picks. A man temporarily loses his ability to feel physical attraction for a woman who could possibly be his soul mate when he consciously chooses to pursue other women whom he clearly knows are not his type. The more a man pursues women he could not love, the less he is able to feel physically attracted to a woman that he could love. By learning from his experience to distinguish between the women to whom he is attracted, a man gets closer to finding the right person for him. The more a man pursues women that he could not love, the less he is able to feel physically attracted to a woman whom he could love. The more discerning we become about whom we are willing to share a relationship with, the closer we get to finding our soul mate. Although a few people hit the target in a few tries, most of us go through the normal process of trial and error. Through repeated self-correction, we eventually meet the right person. This process of increasing discernment 164 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. develops in predictable stages. By understanding the four levels of discernment, you can sense how close you are to finding a soul mate. Let’s explore these levels in greater detail, first for men and then for women. LEVEL ONE FOR MEN: PHYSICAL ATTRACTION At the first level, it is quite normal and natural for a man to be physically attracted to many women. He is particularly attracted to the way a woman physically looks: her walk, her body, her hair, her smile, her eyes, her height, her legs, her rear, her breasts, and the overall shape of her body. Men tend to like one or two particular features. For example, one man may particularly be attracted to legs while another insists on blond hair. This physical attraction is the first and lowest level of discernment for men. Generally a young man starts out on this level. Even a more mature man may regress to this level when he is on the rebound from a relationship. A hungry man is not picky about what food he eats. Since this physical attraction is mindless, a man’s low level of discernment is enormously influenced by what he sees on TV and in movies and magazines. We are bombarded with images of a particular type of woman who always appears sexually receptive, responsive, and self-assured. We are hypnotized to want one type. This attraction has nothing to do with whether a woman is his soul mate. A young and undiscerning man can even feel physical chemistry by looking at a naked store mannequin. Basically one female body type is heavily marketed to be the most attractive to men. As a result, a man associates a certain body type with sexual receptiveness and is automatically attracted to that type. Women also tend to consider that body type to be the most beautiful and worthy of love MEN ARE LIKE BLOWTORCHES, WOMEN ARE LIKE OVENS / 165 because it is that body type that gets a man’s attention, which they mistakenly assume is his affection. As a man matures and moves through the first three stages of dating, he automatically becomes more discerning and discovers that he is also attracted to women who don’t look like the seductive women on TV and in the movies and magazines. When a man finds his soul mate, she is rarely the type he was most attracted to at the more undiscerning level. While physical attraction is the foundation for a man’s discernment to build on, it is still mindless. A woman needs to remember that even if he does not know anything about her except how she looks, he will suddenly start to feel physically attracted. His attraction has nothing to do with who this women is, nor does it reflect a willingness or desire to know her or have a relationship with her. He only wants to see more, touch more, and feel more. LEVEL TWO FOR MEN: EMOTIONAL ATTRACTION After some dating experiences with some of these women the man is attracted to, he starts to find that he likes some better than others. This is an important step. Just as he is able to feel a physical attraction, now he will begin to feel an emotional attraction as well. When he experiences a woman, he will not just feel physical attraction but will also sense how much he likes her. At level one, physical attraction, he may think he likes her because he likes how she makes him feel, but at level two, emotional attraction, he can know if he really likes her and not just how she makes him feel. When a man feels emotional chemistry, he feels friendly and affectionate toward a woman not just because he feels physically attracted; he wants to be close because he likes her as well. 166 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Emotional chemistry has a lot to do with a person’s personality. Personality is how you relate to the world and others. Quite often, opposite personalities are attracted to each other. Some men like a woman with a bubbly or perky personality, while others like a more stable or relaxed personality. The possibilities are really endless. We can be attracted to someone like ourselves, but generally we are most attracted to people who are not like ourselves. For example, a very stable personality with somewhat fixed routines may be attracted to a person who likes change and excitement. A very bold, outwardly directed personality may be attracted to a shy, inwardly directed person. A very assertive personality may be attracted to a more supportive or accommodating personality. An easygoing personality may be attracted to a more formal personality. A playful personality may be attracted to a more serious personality. No one personality is intrinsically more attractive than another, but as we become more discerning we find that we are automatically attracted to the people we like more and could be friends with. LEVEL THREE FOR MEN: MENTAL ATTRACTION By exercising his discernment and choosing only to date women he is attracted to physically and emotionally, a man begins to develop mental attraction. He is intrigued by a woman and wants to touch who she is and not just her body. He is not just attracted to her physically, nor does he just enjoy being friends with her. In level three, he is attracted to her character as well. He is fascinated by the way she thinks, the way she feels, and the way she conducts her life. At level three, his attraction to some aspect of her character brings out in turn the best of his character. It could be any MEN ARE LIKE BLOWTORCHES, WOMEN ARE LIKE OVENS / 167 aspect of her character: her kindness, strength, and power; or her wisdom, clarity, and generosity; or her honesty, openness, and fairness; or her patience, courage, and persistence; or her self-sufficiency, competence, and gracefulness; or her compassion, love, and spirituality. There is no one particular attribute or combination of attributes that makes a woman attractive to all men. Some men will be attracted to more mature character development, while others will be attracted to less mature development. It may be a woman’s abundant and mature wisdom that makes her attractive to a man, or it could be her youthful, innocent desire to know more. It could be a woman’s selfless generosity that makes her attractive, or it could be her desire to have more so she can share more. The degree to which a woman has developed aspects of her character does not interfere with making her attractive to a man. Neither more nor less is necessarily better. She is most attractive when she is herself and there is mental chemistry. At level three, a man will begin to experience that a lot of women are interesting to him but only a few are outstanding. Only a few women will have the aspects of character to which he is most attracted. He will most successfully increase his discernment by getting to know and getting involved with only these women. Simply feeling physically attracted or friendly is no longer the primary requirement. Now a woman must also be very interesting to him. LEVEL FOUR FOR MEN: SOUL ATTRACTION Continuing to exercise his growing discernment by choosing to date only women who attract him on all three levels—physical, emotional, and mental—a man begins to realize his ability to feel soul attraction. When he reaches level four, his 168 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. heart opens. Just as at level one he finds many women physically attractive, at level four he finds many women lovable as well. To various degrees, he could fall in love with any of these women, but only one is the perfect soul mate for him. His love recognizes that this person, though imperfect, is perfect for him. His love allows him to see the good in his partner and motivates him to be supportive. As his love grows, he is able to discern whether this is the right person for him. This decision is not based on a list of conditions. The mind doesn’t figure it out. The soul just knows. Soul attraction is not based on recognizing and finding a list of special qualities and characteristics present in your partner. Instead, it is the recognition that you have what that person needs for his or her soul to grow and your partner has what you need. It is knowing that this is the person you are here to grow in love with, that this is the person you are here to share your heart and learn the lessons of life with. One way of saying it is, “I don’t know why, but somehow we are supposed to be together. In my most clear and loving moments, this is what I know to be true.” To feel a soul connection with someone, our hearts must be open. To fall in love with someone is an indication that we feel someone could possibly be the one for us. It doesn’t mean this is the one, but this could possibly be the one. At that point, it is up to us to move together through the five stages of dating until it becomes clear to us that this person is right or not right. LEVEL ONE FOR WOMEN: MENTAL CHEMISTRY Women also move through these four levels but, as we have already discussed, in a different order. Women are first MEN ARE LIKE BLOWTORCHES, WOMEN ARE LIKE OVENS / 169 attracted to men in their minds. A woman imagines what a man is like and is attracted to something in his character. It could be the smallest gesture of saying “Excuse me,” or the way he knowingly smiles, or shyly asks her for a date. It could be the way he sings a song, writes a letter, communicates his ideas, walks his dog, holds a child, expresses consideration for others, or stands up for what he believes. It could be the kind of questions he asks, the success he has achieved, or the values he lives his life by. All of these are simply ways a man expresses his character. One or two of these expressions stimulate who she is. At the lowest level of discernment for a woman, she is attracted to men by mental chemistry. There are a lot of interesting men, but to begin increasing her ability to discern the right man for her, she needs to date only those men she finds most interesting. Just as men with a low level of discernment long to be with women they see in magazines, women at their lowest level of discernment long to be with the men in romance novels. Just as for men, a woman’s low level of discernment is innocent and a necessary foundation to grow upon. LEVEL TWO FOR WOMEN: EMOTIONAL ATTRACTION After some initial dating experiences with men, a woman starts to find that she likes some better than others. With this experience, she can now be more discerning in the men she chooses to date. At level one, she might go out with a guy because she didn’t know if she liked his type, but he was interesting to her and interested in her. Now she has higher standards. When she senses that she doesn’t like a man a lot, she decides not to date him. Eventually, as her discernment increases, she automatically feels attracted to men she likes, 170 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. and even without knowing a man, she can already tell in advance that he is not her type and she will not date him. Not only will she be attracted to the right guys, but the right guys will be more attracted to her. At this level a woman is attracted to a man’s personality. She is generally open to experience all kinds of men with different personalities. Through trial and error she eventually discovers the kind of personality in a man with which she is most compatible and feels safe being herself. To a certain extent, the more we have learned to express freely who we are and to feel good about ourselves, the faster we move through the levels of discernment. Some women are most attracted to a man who has a very shy approach, while others like a man who is very take-charge and assertive. Some women like men who are quieter, while some enjoy most a man who is very gregarious or funny. Some women are attracted to men who are very structured and deliberate, while others are attracted to men who are very spontaneous and fluid. There is no set way of being that makes a man attractive for every woman. Through her dating experiences a woman is able eventually to discern the kind of man she wants and not get involved with those she doesn’t like as much. LEVEL THREE FOR WOMEN: PHYSICAL ATTRACTION By exercising her discernment and choosing to date only men to whom she feels both mentally and emotionally attracted, a woman begins to discover her physical attraction for a partner. She wants not just to be touched by his mind and heart, but to be touched physically. At this level, when a man holds her hand, puts his arm around her, or gives her a kiss, a lot of physical attraction is felt. Just as a MEN ARE LIKE BLOWTORCHES, WOMEN ARE LIKE OVENS / 171 man at level one longs to touch, a woman at level three longs to be touched. At this level, when a woman already feels mental and emotional chemistry, she will begin to feel physical attraction. Only a few men at this stage will provide all three levels of chemistry. Many men may seem attractive to her, but only a few will also stimulate her mentally and emotionally. By holding to this standard in her relationships, she gives her discernment a chance to grow. LEVEL FOUR FOR WOMEN: SOUL ATTRACTION As a result of her growing discernment, a woman eventually develops her ability to experience soul attraction. She is able to fall in love with a man who has stimulated her on all four levels of attraction. She reaches level four, soul attraction, with her heart open. She will begin to see many men as lovable, but not necessarily the one for her. To various degrees she could love these men, but she gradually learns to recognize which of these men is the perfect soul mate for her. Her open heart makes her capable of eventually seeing the good in her partner, even though he is neither perfect nor able to fulfill all her needs. As her love grows, she is able to discern whether he is right for her, not because of his ability to be the perfect partner, but because in herself she feels an unconditional love that recognizes, “This is the person I am here to be with.” This realization is not something that she has concluded on the basis of comparisons of what is available or what could be possible. Her soul just knows. While the couple will still experience the normal challenges that any two people who don’t understand each other would experience, there is a deep connection they keep com172 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. ing back to that helps them overcome the inevitable conflicts, frustrations, and disappointments in any relationship. THE BENEFITS OF SETTING STANDARDS Through exercising our discernment and continuing to raise our standards, we make sure that we do not compromise ourselves and settle for less when we are ready for more. Choosing to date someone for reasons that do not resonate with our level of maturity will sabotage our ability to move through the five stages of dating. A mature man who continues to date any woman who seems physically attractive, friendly, or sexually responsive may never find real, lasting love. A mature woman who continues to date any man who seems interested in her looks but not her mind as well will continue to be disappointed. Choosing to date someone we already know is not right for us is like shooting for the target and purposefully missing. Not only will this prevent us from hitting the target, but it is very confusing to our inner instincts. Until this pattern is corrected, we will tend to be attracted to the wrong types of partners. When we lower our standards, the wrong type is what we will attract and be attracted to. When we choose to pursue someone we know with certainty is not right for us, we lose our momentum. It is like putting all your life savings in an investment that you are not sure about. You would never think, “Hmm, this investment is definitely not the best for me. I think I will put all my money here.” It would be completely foolish. It would be better just to keep your money in a savings account. In a similar way, it is much better not to date if you are not meeting people who match your standards. If you are at the lowest level of discernment, then dating anyone will help you MEN ARE LIKE BLOWTORCHES, WOMEN ARE LIKE OVENS / 173 grow in discernment. Once you have already developed your discernment, you lose something if you look back. For some time your ability to recognize the right person and your magnetic ability to be attractive to the right person will be diminished. SUCCESS STORIES After learning this, Roger experienced an enormous shift in his life. He had been dating for fun any woman he was attracted to. He knew that the women he was dating did not have the potential to be what he was looking for, but he continued anyway. With this new awareness he raised his standards. After a few months he began dating a woman who he thought had the potential. After another six months he proposed. Now he and his wife have been married several years and are very happy with two children. Kent has a similar story, but he experienced an even more sudden transformation. After many counseling sessions, I was finally able to convince him that he was wasting his time and his life pursuing women just for sex. He would take out practically any woman, and pursue her until he achieved his goal. Kent was and is a fine person. He just didn’t understand how he was compromising himself in this process. The very next day after he decided to stop flirting with and chasing just any woman, he met and fell in love with the woman of his dreams. They are now engaged to be married. After taking my seminar for singles, Alexis decided to stop having relationships with men who were just physically attracted to her. Instead she became much more picky. She realized that her pattern was to immediately move into stage four of dating (intimacy) when a man was physically attracted. She would mistakenly assume that he felt all four 174 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. levels of attraction for her and so she would respond to him as if he were about to marry her. Within a month of her realization, she met Gus, who later became her husband. Although she fell in love right away, she wisely put her foot on the brake and went slowly. She was careful to move through each of the five stages, and now she is happily married. She is grateful for this insight and continues to share it by teaching Mars/Venus workshops for singles. EVERY RELATIONSHIP IS A GIFT Every relationship is a gift. It offers us the opportunity to prepare ourselves for finding and recognizing our soul mate. Each time you choose to move through the five stages of dating with a partner, you are increasing your ability to discern the right person for you. Each time, you gain the ability to shoot your arrow closer to the target. When a relationship ends, it is good to take some time to reflect on the gift and then begin again. When you feel grateful for something, then you are ready to move on. Even divorce can give us the gift of discernment. If we take the time to be forgiving of our partner and forgiving of ourselves for our mistakes, then our next relationship can bring us closer to the mark. Through finding the gift or the good in each relationship, we will eventually make our dreams come true. Cynthia was married four times before finding her soul mate. In each of her marriages, she thought she was with her soul mate. She so much wanted to find her soul mate that each time she fell in love, she would assume he was the one. Eventually she learned that love was not enough and that before assuming a man was her soul mate, she would take MEN ARE LIKE BLOWTORCHES, WOMEN ARE LIKE OVENS / 175 more time to get to know him. She is finally now married to her soul mate and is very happy. Each time you choose to move through the stages of dating, you are in effect fine-tuning your ability to attract the right person for you. By working to make a relationship work at each stage and by ending relationships without resentment or guilt, you are paving the way toward a great relationship. Each one of these choices will increase your discernment. REALIZING THE POTENTIAL OF A RELATIONSHIP Correctly understanding the way men and women think and feel differently doesn’t ensure that any relationship will move through all five stages, but it does allow us to correctly assess a relationship. Too many times, we reject each other not because we have found that a person is wrong for us, but because we believed something was wrong with that person. By ending relationships with a more loving and nonjudgmental attitude, we will continue to be attracted to the people who are closer to what we want. With this understanding we find that we become less picky and more open to the potential of a relationship. We reject each other not because we have found that a person is wrong for us, but because we think—mistakenly—there is something wrong with that person. Even with a more accurate understanding of our differences we unknowingly sabotage the attraction in a relationship by switching roles. It is vital for the growth of romance and attraction that the man in a relationship maintain the 176 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. role of pursuer, while the woman continues in the role of being pursued. When a man feels successful in pursuing her and a woman feels he could be the one for her, then their potential passion and attraction have a chance to build naturally. In Chapter 11 we will explore these roles more fully. 11 The Dynamics of Male and Female Desire Women mistakenly follow the advice that if you want someone to be interested in you, you should be interested in him. This advice works for men who want a woman’s interest, but it doesn’t work the other way around. When a woman is really interested in a man, he tends to become more interested in himself. If she listens attentively, he will generally talk more. If she seeks to please his every need, he will gladly let her know what more she can do. This man is not a hopeless case. He is simply from Mars. His major focus is just different from a woman’s. One approach is not better than the other. A woman is most fulfilled when her needs are met, while a man is fulfilled primarily through being successful in fulfilling her. Understanding this fundamental difference can give both men and women the answers to many questions that come up while dating. 177 178 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. A man is like a magic genie. He comes out of his bottle with the opportunity to fulfill a woman’s every wish. He goes back into his bottle, however, when he gets the message that he can’t succeed in making her happy. Instinctively he is most interested in being successful. In relating to her, whatever will make her happiest makes him happy. If he detects that her mission is to please him, he will also focus on how she can please him. He will automatically focus on what he wants and clearly let her know. He will give her ample opportunity to fulfill his wishes, wants, and needs. If she wants to pursue him, he will happily sit back and passively receive what she wants to give. If a man detects that a woman’s mission is to please him, he will also focus on how she can please him. This is not what will really make her happy. When he senses that she is not happy, she becomes less interesting to him and the attraction lessens. By making a few adjustments in her approach to dating, a woman can create the ideal opportunity for a man to become more interested in her. Even the right man, without an opportunity to become interested, will lose interest in a woman. He may stay interested, but his interest is only lukewarm. He keeps looking for other women, even when he is with her. There is a reason for this reaction. It has nothing to do with the man or how interesting the woman truly is. It has to do with how she responds to a man’s interest. ACTIVE AND RECEPTIVE INTEREST There are basically two kinds of interest: active and receptive. Active interest is what we feel when we have a goal in THE DYNAMICS OF MALE AND FEMALE DESIRE / 179 mind: it motivates action to achieve a goal, thrives on achievement, and comes from a place of desire and confidence. Active interest wants to serve, while receptive interest wants to be served. Receptive interest is what we feel when we are openly considering the value of what is being offered: It is motivated to create opportunities to receive, thrives in response to support, and comes from a place of preference and worthiness. These two kinds of interest are reciprocal in their effect on each other. When a man is very actively interested in a woman, his active interest will usually generate feelings of receptive interest in her. If a woman is receptively interested in a man, it will generate his active interest in her. A woman’s receptive interest in a man generates his active interest in her. Let’s look at a basic example. A man asks a woman for her number. He has his goal in mind and thus he is actively interested. A woman’s response is naturally to consider the request. Her interest is receptive; she has no goal in mind, no hidden agenda, but instead reflects on whether she would like to talk further with this man. She notices how she feels about it and then decides whether to give out her number. The man’s confidence, which allows him to risk possible rejection to ask a woman for her number, generates in a woman the reassuring feeling that she is desirable. When she considers his request and gives him her number, his confidence is increased. Just as his active interest made her feel special, her receptive interest generated increasing confidence in him. It makes a woman feel special when a man is willing to risk rejection to get to know her. 180 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Some women will actually become interested in a man simply because he was interested enough to ask. Once again, his active interest generates within her a receptive interest in him. Even though many women feel free to offer their number to a man, they appreciate it much, much more if he asks. In essence, these women are saying that when a man is actively interested, they thrive. In a similar way, when a woman is receptively interested in a man, he thrives. When she reacts to his advances, he feels more connected to her. When a man feels more connected, he is automatically more interested and motivated to get to know her. A woman’s receptive interest is the fertile ground where the seed of a man’s interest can grow. When a woman reacts to a man’s advances, he feels more connected to her. This insight about the two kinds of interest is essential because it explains to a woman what makes her more interesting to a man and it reveals to men the basic principle of how to sweep a woman off her feet. BUILDING THE FIRE OF ROMANCE A woman’s receptive interest is like the kindling wood that is necessary for building the fire of romance, while a man’s active interest is the match required to light the fire. Striking the match alone cannot possibly start the fire. A woman must provide the kindling. Slowly the heat builds so that the bigger logs have a chance to ignite. A woman provides the kindling so the heat of romance can slowly build, eventually to ignite the bigger logs. THE DYNAMICS OF MALE AND FEMALE DESIRE / 181 If a woman doesn’t provide the receptive interest, the fire will not have a chance to burn. Practically speaking, this means that when a woman is focused more on giving than receiving, when she cares more about pleasing him than about what would please her, a man will not become more interested in her. This one pivotal insight is the opposite of what many woman think. A woman mistakenly assumes that if she is eager to please a man, he will be pleased and become more interested. Yes, he will be pleased, but he will not necessarily become more actively interested. When a woman is actively interested in pursuing a man, it is flattering to a man and it will probably generate in him some receptive interest, but that is all. He will probably go with the flow as long as it feels good to him, but rarely does he become motivated to pursue her. What makes a man more interested in a woman is when he feels really good in her presence. Remember, men are from Mars; they like feeling successful. When a man feels actively interested, it tends to bring out the best in him. When a man is actively engaged in achieving a goal, he feels best about himself. The way a woman makes him feel good is by creating opportunities for him to succeed in truly fulfilling her needs. When a man really likes how he feels around a woman, he begins to like her more. A woman can begin to understand this by imagining for a moment that she is a man. In one scenario, this man has worked really hard, has helped a lot of people, and makes a lot of money in the end. This money makes him very happy. In another scenario, the man doesn’t work hard, he doesn’t 182 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. help anyone, but he too makes a lot of money. This money also makes him happy. By putting yourself in his situation it is easy to sense how much better he feels about himself in the first case, when he worked hard and helped a lot of people. No matter what a man receives, he will feel better about it when he feels that he actively pursued it and achieved it. The better a man feels about himself, the more he is motivated to share himself and the more attracted he is to someone who makes him feel that way. GIVING AND RECEIVING A MASSAGE Giving and receiving a massage clearly points out the difference between active interest and receptive interest. When Philip is giving Marie a neck massage, he is actively interested in giving a wonderful massage. These are some of his thoughts and feelings when he is actively interested: I wonder what she will like best? What approach should I use to make her feel really good? I think I will try doing this a little more softly. I bet she would like this long gentle stroke. Now I will move my hands down her back. This will be very relaxing. Oh, she has a lot of tension here. I think I should do this move a little longer. Oh, good—she released that tension. THE DYNAMICS OF MALE AND FEMALE DESIRE / 183 I’ll bet she is feeling much better now. I wonder if there is anything else I can do for her. I think she liked this a lot. Each of these thoughts is an expression of Philip’s active interest. If he is received as a success, then he will surely feel more connected and motivated to know her. While Philip is feeling his active interest in pleasing Marie, Marie naturally responds with receptive interest. These are some of her thoughts and feelings: I would love to have a massage. Ah, this feels so good. Umm, I like it when he touches me that way. Wow, this is so nice. Oh, don’t stop; that feels so good. This is really nice; I can just relax. Hmm, I wonder what he is going to do next. Oh, that was perfect. I feel so much better. I wonder what else he can do so well. Marie’s thoughts and feelings are all the expression of receptive interest. By remembering how a woman feels and thinks when she is having a massage, a woman can also connect with the kind of thoughts and feelings that make her most interesting to a man. It is often a revelation for a woman to discover that her receptive interest is the greatest 184 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. gift she can give a man, just as a man’s active interest is the greatest gift he can give her. A WOMAN’S WORTH Without an understanding of men, many women think they have to “do something” to earn a man’s love and attention. These women do not understand the intrinsic value of simply being interested in and receptive to what a man has to offer. A woman does not recognize that being open and responsive to a man’s “doing” is in itself giving back to the man. A woman thrives when a man “does” for her. When a man is actively interested, she is most interested in him. Since this is her experience, she mistakenly assumes it is the same for a man, but it is not. Most women don’t realize their value to men. A man thrives when a woman is open and receptive to his interest and his attempts to interest, impress, and fulfill her. Her receptivity is her gift to him; he is grateful for the opportunity to know her, connect with her, and bask in her radiance. Without her to please, he is a man out of work. He needs a job. He needs the opportunity to succeed in a relationship with a woman. This is an enormous boost to his fulfillment in life. DESIRE AND DYNAMIC TENSION Desire, interest, and passion in a relationship come from dynamic tension. This dynamic tension is created, awakened, or “turned on” when a man gives and a woman receives graciously. When a man gives to a woman and is successful in pleasing her, then at some level he anticipates something in return. This anticipation creates excitement, interest, and THE DYNAMICS OF MALE AND FEMALE DESIRE / 185 enthusiasm. Quite automatically, he becomes challenged to become more involved. Many women unknowingly diffuse this tension by quickly returning the gift. Instead of receiving the gift and letting the man savor the feeling of success, a woman will shift gears from being receptive to being actively interested in giving to him. She will begin planning how she will repay his gift. This shift will ultimately lessen his interest. When a woman doesn’t clearly know her worth or value to a man, then it can be hard for her to be receptive to his active interest. Instead of simply receiving, she feels she must keep giving back. She doesn’t realize that by simply receiving, she is giving a gift. Not only is it not necessary for her to give back, but giving back can also prevent him from being more interested. A woman mistakenly thinks that to be worthy of receiving what she really wants, she must keep giving back what she is receiving. The tendency to give back is just so automatic that a woman may not even know she is doing it. After all, on her planet it is just good manners to give back immediately. Let’s use the example of the massage to explore some of the thoughts and feelings a woman might have when she is unable to receive. As you will see, initially she has the same feelings a receptive woman has, but quickly they turn into thoughts and feelings expressive of active interest. These are some of her thoughts and feelings: I would love a massage, but what will he expect from me? I wonder what he would like from me. Ooh, this feels good. I should give him a massage. I wonder what approach I should use on him. 186 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Umm, I like when he touches me that way. I wonder how he likes to be touched. Maybe I should touch him this way. Wow, this is so nice. I feel so bad that I haven’t done anything for him. What should I do for him? Oh, don’t stop; that feels so good. But wait, I shouldn’t be so selfish. What could I do to make him feel good? He is the one who experiences the most tension. This is really nice. I can just relax. But I can’t just relax—I should do something to make him feel better. He has had a long day; he doesn’t need to be doing this now. Hmm, I wonder what he is going to do next. I wonder what I should do so he will continue to like me. Oh, that was perfect. I don’t deserve this. I haven’t done anything. What can I do so he will think I am perfect for him? I feel so much better, but what can I do to repay him? I wonder if there is anything else I can do for him. I wonder what else he can do so well. I wonder why he would want to be with me. I had better do something for him. In each example, at first she is receptive, but then her mind is filled with thoughts of how she can please him, or what he might want, or what she should do to be worthy of his support. Instead of just relaxing and fully receiving the massage, THE DYNAMICS OF MALE AND FEMALE DESIRE / 187 this woman shifts from being receptively interested to being actively interested. Although it seems very loving, when a woman shifts to active interest, it can actually prevent a man from becoming fully interested in a woman; it can diffuse the dynamic tension that makes him desire her more. THE POWER OF ATTITUDE A man’s interest in a woman can grow only when he feels actively interested. On the other hand, his interest will tend to decline slowly if he only feels receptively interested in her. Likewise, when a man is actively interested in a woman, it gives her an opportunity to explore her true and authentic responses to his pursuit. This authenticity makes her more attractive to the right kind of guy for her. With this understanding, dating can be the ultimate opportunity to explore and access the potential of a relationship while having a good time. If a woman pursues a man with active interest, it makes him receptively interested. Although he likes receiving her interest, warmth, and affection, it does not make him more interested in her. Receptive interest just does not bring out the best in a man. After a while he becomes interested in someone else, who does promise to bring out the best in him. EXAMPLES OF ACTIVE AND RECEPTIVE INTEREST When a man is actively interested in a woman, he is thinking about things like what he should do to impress her. When a woman is receptive, she gives a man the confidence to take the risks necessary to impress her. The more he takes risks to achieve his goal, the more invested he becomes. Her receptive interest actually empowers him. 188 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. If she begins to wonder if he is interested enough and then pursues him by trying to impress him, it can sabotage the potential of a date. Instead of making him more interested, it can make him less interested. Pursuing his interest has an effect that is the opposite of what she expects. If she makes the mistake of trying to impress him, then he will automatically relax and let her do the risking. Certainly a man likes not having to take a risk: He likes being waited on; he likes a woman to be actively interested; but it doesn’t cause him to like her more. A man’s interest is engaged when he does it, when he earns it, when he achieves, when he wins her over. Men become actively interested when they are figuring out what to do, what to give, how to provide, how to achieve a goal, how to impress someone, and how to get the love, acceptance, and admiration they want. To get a practical sense of active and receptive interest, let’s explore the following examples. As you read through the table the difference will become increasingly clear. You may have to read it a few times to understand and to get a feel for the difference. First we will explore examples of common thoughts and feelings a man might have when he is either actively or receptively interested in a woman. Next we will explore a woman’s thoughts and feelings. MAN IS ACTIVELY INTERESTED MAN IS RECEPTIVELY INTERESTED I wonder if she would be inter-I wonder if I would like to ested in me. I think she is inter-spend time with her. She does esting. seem interested in me. It might be fun. THE DYNAMICS OF MALE AND FEMALE DESIRE / 189 MAN IS ACTIVELY INTERESTED I wonder if she would like me, I really like her. Let’s see, how should I approach her? I wonder what I could offer her. I think I could make her really happy. I wonder if I am good enough for her. Well, there’s no harm in trying. I bet I could make her really happy. Here goes. I wonder how I could get to meet her. When should I make my approach? What should I say? Okay, I’ll simply introduce myself and be being friendly. I wonder if she would go out with me. Well, she is worth it. I’m going to ask her if I can get her number. I’m not going to let her just walk out of my life without at least trying. I wonder how I could make her happy. I’ll invite her to my favorite restaurant. I hope she likes it. MAN IS RECEPTIVELY INTERESTED I wonder if I would like to get to know her better. I don’t know, but she seems to like me, so we’ll see. I wonder what she could offer me. She’s beautiful. I certainly wouldn’t mind finding out. I wonder if she is good enough for me. She does turn me on. I bet she could make me really happy. You never know. I wonder if I should make it easy for her to meet me. She certainly is flirting with me. Well, there’s no harm in just friendly. I wonder if I would want to go out with her. She sure seems to be interested in me. Maybe I should get her number and give her a call sometime. I bet she could make me happy. I certainly can’t say no to this offer. 190 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. MAN IS ACTIVELY INTERESTED I wonder what she would like to do. Maybe I should look in the paper to see what’s happening next week. I wonder what she is feeling about me. I hope I made a good impression. Let’s see, what else can I think of to do? I wonder how I could impress her. Let’s make a plan. First we should have dinner and then have plenty of time to get to the movies by eight. She will have a great time. I wonder when I should make my move and kiss her. I don’t want to seem too forward. Remember, go slowly. She seems to like me too. Well, it’s now or never. MAN IS RECEPTIVELY INTERESTED I wonder what I would like to do. I really don’t care. I’ll wait and ask her; anything is fine with me. I wonder how I feel about her. I’m not sure if I should call her. I’ll wait and see how I feel later. I wonder if she is going to be good tonight. She looked great the other night. Let’s see, what would I like to do? I am going to have a great time. I wonder if she wants to kiss me. I sure hope she does. I’ll bet she would be real good. In reviewing the above table it also becomes clear that when a man is actively interested, he tends to be much more action-oriented, masculine, and directed. These qualities tend to make him much more attractive to women. While there is nothing wrong with being receptively interested, it just doesn’t make a man irresistible to women. As we will see in the next table, it is receptive interest that makes a woman most attractive to a man. THE DYNAMICS OF MALE AND FEMALE DESIRE / 191 WOMAN IS ACTIVELY INTERESTED I wonder if he would be interested in me. What should I do? How should I be with him? I wonder if he likes me. How should I approach him? I’ll bet I could entice him. I wonder what I could offer him. I’ll bet I could really help him. He needs me. I wonder if I am good enough for him. I’ll bet I could really please him; maybe then he would want me. I wonder how I could get to meet him. How should I get his attention? What should I ask him? Okay, I’ll compliment him and then ask him a question. I wonder if he will ask me out. Well, he is a catch, and I am not letting him get away. I am going to get his number and give him a call. We could be right for each other. WOMANISRECEPTIVELYINTERESTED I wonder if I am interested in him. He seems interesting. I think I would like to get to know him. I wonder if I would like to get to know him. He seems interesting. I can make some time for him. I wonder what he could offer me. He’s cute. I certainly would like to find out. I wonder if he is good enough for me. I do like him. He does really want to spend time with me. Maybe he is the right guy. I wonder how I could make it easy for him to meet me. I like him. I’ll occasionally look his way so he can catch my eyes looking at him. I wonder if I would want to go out with him. I think he’s interesting. Maybe I should let him have my number. He is charming. If he doesn’t ask, I’ll give him my number, in case he wants to give me a call. 192 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. WOMAN IS ACTIVELY INTERESTED I wonder how I could make him happy. I know just what to do to get his attention. I wonder what he would like to do. I’ll look in the paper to see what he might like. I wonder what he is feeling about me. I hope I look all right. I wonder if I said the right things. I wonder how I could impress him. Let’s see, what should I wear? I wonder how I should react when… I wonder when I should make my move and kiss him. I want to make sure he is turned on to me. WOMANISRECEPTIVELYINTERESTED I wonder if he could make me happy. He may be the one. This is exciting. I wonder how I feel about what he suggests we do; it sounds like fun. This is exciting. I wonder how I feel about him. He seems really interesting. I like getting to know him. I wonder how he will make me feel tonight; I hope it’s good. Let’s see, what should I wear? What makes me feel good? I wonder if he wants to kiss me. I hope he does. I wonder how it will feel. After reading this table of women’s active or receptive interest, it becomes clear that when a woman is being receptive, her best and most feminine qualities have a chance to shine. There is nothing wrong with a woman being actively interested in a man, but she should remember that to be most attractive in the long run and for her to feel best about herself while dating, it is important to develop an attitude of receptive interest. THE DYNAMICS OF MALE AND FEMALE DESIRE / 193 WOMEN GIVE WHAT WOMEN WANT When a man receives from a woman, it opens him up to receive more, but when a woman receives from a man, it opens her up to give more. Without this insight about our different reactions, a woman will automatically give what she would want and assume that it will make a man most interested in her. If a man was to listen attentively to her, she would definitely become more interested in him. If a man was to notice her needs and wishes and happily go out of his way to fulfill them, then she would be swept off her feet. Since this is her experience, she mistakenly assumes he will be swept off his feet when she does those things for him. As a result, she becomes actively interested in planning to do for him what she would love him to do for her. She thinks she is doing the right thing. When he doesn’t respond the way she would, she mistakenly assumes that something is wrong with her or him. A woman gives what she would want and assumes it will make a man most interested in her. The problem is that when a man is swept off his feet in this manner, he tends to take a nap. A man may like her attention and support very much, but it stops there. He likes how she makes him feel and in return he likes her as well. But when a woman brings out the best in a man, then he really likes how he feels and this motivates him to get to know her more. He becomes actively interested. If a woman focuses on being increasingly receptive to a man’s advances, then she holds the key to creating an opportunity for a relationship to flourish. It not only gives him the 194 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. opportunity to experience his feelings for her but assists him in being the best he can be. In a similar manner, when a man is actively interested in a woman, it not only allows her to discover her true feelings for him but also allows her best self to come out and radiate. 12 Men Pursue and Women Flirt To create the necessary attraction to move a dating couple through the five stages of dating, men and women must maintain complementary roles. To be most attractive, a man needs to do little things with an attitude of confidence and conviction. A woman needs to respond to the things he does in a receptive but not fully convinced manner. She needs to stay in a place of openness and not appear desperate or needy. A man should not get the idea that she is after him, but that she is open to finding out if she likes him. To move through the five stages of dating, men and women need to sustain complementary roles. To create a relationship, a woman must be careful not to pursue a man but to be responsive to his pursuit. This kind 195 196 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. of receptiveness and responsiveness is expressed through flirting. When a woman flirts with a man, she is simply interacting in a manner that expresses the feeling that maybe he could be the man to make her happy, maybe he could be that great guy she has been looking for her whole life, maybe he could be capable of fulfilling her needs, maybe he could be the one she would want to share a really special time with, or maybe he could just be interesting or fun. Flirting is like shopping. When a woman shops she has fun checking out what she likes and does not like. She is not interested in proving herself to the salesperson. She freely tries things on and she can easily leave without buying anything. She has the freedom to look in other stores and return whenever she pleases. This is the perfect attitude for flirting. Flirting energy says, “I am looking and liking what I see. Maybe you could be the one to make me happy.” Pursuing is like going on a job interview. Sure, you may want to get a feel for the company, but you are primarily trying to impress the company so that it will hire you. While pursuing a woman, a man instinctively puts forth his best and most charming side for a woman to react to. Pursuing energy says, “I could be the one to make you happy. Check me out. Look at what I have done and what I can do.” As long as he is doing the pursuing and she is responding in a receptive, playful, and pleased manner, then the attraction has a chance to build. A woman’s flirting responses to a man’s pursuit are very exciting because a man is always looking for the opportunity to take credit for a woman’s happiness. It compliments his ability to make a woman happy. Being successful in the pursuit is as much fun for him as it is fun for a woman to feel that someone she likes is trying to make her happy. MEN PURSUE AND WOMEN FLIRT / 197 Flirting is very exciting to men because it compliments their ability to make a woman happy. Although almost anything a woman does with a receptive attitude is flirting, these are twelve examples of definite flirting signals that will enable a man to recognize that a woman is receptive to his approach and pursuit. TWELVE WAYS WOMEN FLIRT 1. She may just smile and make eye contact for about three to five seconds in a way that says, “I might be interested,” and then look away. 2. She might bat her eyelids in a way that says, “Well, I am waiting for someone like you.” 3. She may tilt her head, as if to say, “I wonder if you are the right kind of guy for me.” 4. She may get up and walk by the man, as if to say, “If you haven’t noticed me, now you have a chance. Make your move.” 5. She may look at him, catch his look, and then after three to five seconds look away to invite him to look her over. Then, after about ten seconds, she may look back with a smile that says, “If you are interested, introduce yourself. I don’t bite.” 6. She may brush up against him and then respond with a little sound like “Oh” that says, “Oh, I didn’t mean to touch you…but I liked it.” 198 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. 7. She may casually touch his hand while talking, as if to acknowledge that she appreciates his understanding or attentiveness. She may then simply smile in a way that says, “I like feeling and connecting with you.” Or she might raise her eyebrows as if to say, “Wow, that really felt good.” 8. She may touch his leg above the knee or his shoulder as she makes a point as if to acknowledge that she feels safe, familiar, and comfortable with him. Then, after lifting her hand, she pauses as if to catch her breath because the unexpected spark of connection was so delightful that she momentarily forgot what she was saying. 9. She may be playfully argumentative in a discussion or even challenge his point of view in a manner that says, “We don’t have to always agree, I like you anyway. I enjoy another point of view and I am stimulated by what you say.” 10. She may ask him to carry something or help her with something. While he is helping, she may take a deep breath and relax on the exhale, as if to say, “It’s so nice to be able to relax and be taken care of. This is really so nice.” 11. She may ask him a question about something and then playfully revel in his brilliance, as if to say, “I like the way you think you are really helpful.” 12. At the end of a date she may look him in the eyes, slightly tilt her head, smile, and then raise her chin slightly, as if to say, “I really had a good time and if you want to kiss me, I would like that too. Just do it.” MEN PURSUE AND WOMEN FLIRT / 199 All of these little expressions create the opportunity for him to feel her receptiveness to him. This is what draws a man in. He needs clear signs that if he pursues he will make progress. If a man does not get clear signals, the attraction may lessen because he doesn’t anticipate being successful. HOW MEN PURSUE When a man pursues a woman, he is interacting in a manner that says he is interested in finding out if he is the one for her. His eyes, his voice, his attention, his interest, and his touch all say confidently, “I am interested in you and I bet I could be the one to make you happy, I could be that great guy you have been waiting for, I could fulfill your needs, I could do things to make you really happy, or I can be really interesting and fun.” This kind of flirting is very exciting for women because women are looking for the occasional opportunity to relax and have someone care enough to take responsibility for their happiness and lead them where they would like to go. Women enjoy it most when a man takes the risk to impress her rather than waiting for her to do something to impress him. In first getting to know a woman, you must be careful to connect for a while before you go for the number. You should first display your interest nonverbally, and get a clear response from her long before approaching her. If you can’t get her attention, then you should have the waiter bring her a gift or hand her a little note. Let her read it away from you. If gradually she begins to flirt with an inviting smile, you should proceed. 200 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Another approach is to meet one of her friends and to ask questions about her. It is much easier to introduce yourself to a friend. Then her friend will talk to her about you. If she looks your way, then her flirting has begun. You can then approach and simply introduce yourself. THE BEST LINE IS THE EASIEST Many men panic when it comes to figuring out an opening line. The best line is the easiest. Just introduce yourself; say “Hi, my name is John. What’s your name?” After she answers, then you should be prepared to ask a few questions or make a few comments about what is going on around you or the weather. What is important is that you took the step, not what you say. Even if you are not coherent, she will be impressed because you took the risk to pursue her. To get a Venusian to talk, the best question is, “Where are you from?” while the best question to get a Martian to talk is, “What do you do?” Men like to talk about what they do or have done, while women particularly like to talk about settings, relationships, and situations. When you don’t feel good at small talk or chitchat, you can still be very successful by continuing to be present, looking in her direction, and asking questions. You need to remember that if you are not good at chitchat, then the women you are attracted to will generally love picking up the slack and talking more. WHY MEN BECOME TONGUE-TIED It is perfectly normal for a man to become tongue-tied when he first meets a woman. This is another example of the way men and women are different. Men tend to use one part of MEN PURSUE AND WOMEN FLIRT / 201 the brain at a time, while women use many parts simultaneously. It is relatively easy for a woman to speak when she has strong feelings, but for a man, the stronger the feelings, the less he is able to think and speak. That is why when a man sees a woman to whom he is attracted, he can’t easily figure out how to approach her until she leaves, or when he does meet her, he doesn’t know what to say. Some men become even more nervous because they anticipate not knowing what to say. For many men, it is a relief to find out that almost all men fumble the ball when approaching a woman. Women are used to it and they are not judgmental about it. They think it makes a man cute or charming. They are most flattered that he was willing to overcome his nerves and take the risk to meet them. The more inarticulate a man is, the more complimented a woman will feel. The more foolish he is willing to risk appearing, the more she feels he cares, and that is a big compliment. A woman is impressed when a man is willing to try to meet her even though he doesn’t have all the answers or isn’t completely perfect and smooth. If he can’t figure out what to say or ask, he can just stand there with his head slightly down and tilted to the side with a little smile, and a woman may fall in love with him. She may be thinking, “He is so charming. He doesn’t have to be smooth and come up with funny lines and expressions to win a woman over. He just needs to take the risk to meet her and be a good listener.” Another important element in pursuing and flirting is the art of complimenting the opposite sex. In Chapter 13 we will explore in greater detail how to express our attraction to our date. 13 Acknowledge Men and Adore Women Compliments are the best way to communicate our attraction and allow it to grow. If a man is attracted to a woman, he can let her know by giving compliments. Sometimes a man makes the mistake of complimenting a woman the way he would want to be complimented instead of the way they do it on Venus. Likewise, many women don’t realize how to compliment a man successfully. The bottom line is that men want to be acknowledged, while women want to be adored. On Mars they feel most complimented when the results of their decisions and actions are acknowledged and appreciated. A man on a date really likes it when a woman talks about what a good time she is having or how delicious the dinner was or what a great movie they saw. His reaction is then to feel very successful for having provided all that. 202 ACKNOWLEDGE MEN AND ADORE WOMEN / 203 On Mars they feel most liked and complimented when the results of their decisions and actions are acknowledged and appreciated. When a woman says, “That was such a great movie,” his response is the same as if he had written the movie. Since he provided the movie that pleased her, he feels she is pleased with him. In fact, he feels as if he directed it, wrote it, produced it, and even starred in it. When a woman comments with enthusiasm about the food in a restaurant he has chosen, he feels thrilled. It is as if he had spent all day preparing that meal and she appreciated it. When she responds in a positive manner to the things he provides, and overlooks what isn’t as wonderful, a man feels most complimented and appreciated. When a woman says, “I am having such a great time tonight. I feel so good. The air is so clean and clear. The stars are so beautiful. The moon rising over the river is so romantic,” a man is teleported into heaven. The more she appreciates the evening, the more successful he feels for having provided it. It is as though he has made the moon rise; he is so romantic; he has made the air fresh and clear. His affection for her increases because he feels so proud. GIVING COMPLIMENTS ON VENUS On Venus they are most touched when a compliment is personally directed. Certainly any compliment is fine, but the best compliments for women are more personal and direct. Men do not instinctively know this and miss the opportunity to connect with a woman by complimenting her in a more 204 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. direct manner. Since men like to be acknowledged for what they do, a man may do the same for her and miss the chance to let her feel his attraction for her. Instead of focusing on what a woman does or how she makes him feel, he should ideally focus on finding positive adjectives and nouns to describe her directly. It is fine to talk about what she has done, but it should always include a statement about her. That is how she can feel his affection the most and it is another way she gets to know him best. A woman is most reassured in the way a man sees her and compliments her. A woman will feel most attracted to a man when he makes his compliments personal and direct, while a man will feel most attracted to a woman when her compliments are less direct and more about how she feels in response to what he has done, thought, decided, or provided. Let’s explore this difference. INDIRECT COMPLIMENTS DIRECT COMPLIMENTS (Best to Give Men)(Best to Give Women) I am having a wonderful time. You are so wonderful. I had so much fun. You are so much fun. That was a great movie. You have great taste in movies. This restaurant is fantastic. You are a fantastic cook. This band is great. You are a great dancer. This was such a perfect even-Your smile is so perfect. ing. I really enjoy talking with you. You are so interesting. I really like spending time You are so easy to be with. with you. ACKNOWLEDGE MEN AND ADORE WOMEN / 205 INDIRECT COMPLIMENTS DIRECT COMPLIMENTS (Best to Give Men)(Best to Give Women) I have had such a delightful You are truly delightful. evening. I can’t remember when I had You are such a pleasure to such a good time. meet. That really makes sense. You are so smart. Amazing—it only took you Amazing—you are so efficient. twenty minutes to do this. Wow, this is so impressive. Wow, you are so impressive. This is a great job. You have done a great job. I would never have thought to You are so brilliant. do that. Going to this movie was a You sure know how to pick great decision, or I am really great movies. glad we went to this movie. When a woman compliments a man in the indirect manner as suggested in the above table, it encourages him to continue pursuing her, it makes him feel more confident in his ability to win her over, and it makes him feel more successful and thus more interested in her. If she is not being direct in her compliments, she continues to leave a distance between them that he can cross in his pursuit of her. When a man compliments a woman in a more direct manner as suggested, it reassures her that she is being cherished and respected. It connects her more directly to herself and how she feels about the man, and it directly softens her and opens her up to feeling more receptive and responsive. As she 206 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. responds in a pleased manner to his compliments, he feels he is making progress in getting closer. WOMEN LOVE PERSONAL COMPLIMENTS A man will feel complimented if a woman loves his car, his stereo, or his favorite football team, but a woman feels complimented when she feels personally noticed and adored. Personal compliments are positive observations—things that a man notices about her when he is looking at her and relating to her. For a woman to begin having deeper feelings for a man, his compliments need to become more personal. When he makes three or more personal compliments in a conversation, it is a clear sign that he is expressing and pursuing a personal attraction. When he makes three or more personal compliments in a conversation, it is a clear sign that he is pursuing. Women will appreciate any sincere compliment, but when a man puts a little more thought into his words she will like it more. When a man takes a few extra moments to consider the right compliment for a woman, the compliment ripens. It conveys more of his best self and will stimulate more of her best self. The more special the adjective, the more special she feels. These are some examples of simple compliments versus more ripened compliments. PLAIN COMPLIMENT JUICY COMPLIMENT That is a nice picture. You are incredibly artistic. You look good tonight. You look magnificent tonight. ACKNOWLEDGE MEN AND ADORE WOMEN / 207 PLAIN COMPLIMENT You sing well. You have a good voice. You have a nice face. You have a nice smile. You look good. You look nice. You are smart. You have good taste. You have nice eyes. You look nice. That is a nice dress. JUICY COMPLIMENT You are such a gifted singer. You have a divine voice. You have an angelic face. You have such a radiant smile. You are so gorgeous. You are so lovely. Your brilliance is dazzling. Your taste is excellent. You have such a special sparkle in your eyes. You look so beautiful. You look so exquisite in that dress. Certainly it may sometimes be appropriate to use a simple and plain compliment, but the riper compliments become, the more receptive a woman begins to feel. JUICING UP COMPLIMENTS FOR WOMEN Even a plain compliment can be juiced up with any of these five simple words: so, really, very, always, and such. A man can easily transform any simple compliment to match his level of attraction, interest, enthusiasm, familiarity, and pride. Let’s explore how these five easy words can juice up the most basic compliment, “You look nice.” 208 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. 1. You look so nice. (attraction) 2. You look really nice. (interest) 3. You look very nice. (enthusiasm) 4. You always look nice. (familiarity) 5. You have such a nice look. (pride) To express more feeling in a compliment, he can just repeat any of these words or combine them like this: 1. You look so, so nice. 2. You really look so nice. 3. You look very, very nice. 4. You always look so nice. 5. You really have such a nice look. JUICING UP COMPLIMENTS FOR MEN Women can also use these five words to express more feeling in their indirect compliments to a man. Let’s apply these five words to one of the most basic compliments that any man loves to hear, “I am happy we did this.” 1. I am so happy we did this. 2. I am really happy we did this. 3. I am very happy we did this. 4. I am always happy to do this. 5. I am so happy; I had such a good time. ACKNOWLEDGE MEN AND ADORE WOMEN / 209 6. I am so very happy we did this. 7. I really am so happy we did this. 8. I am very, very happy we did this. 9. I always feel so happy when we do this. 10. I had such a really good time. Another way a woman can indirectly compliment a man is to appreciate what he has provided. By appreciating the movie, the play, the singing, the food, the decorations, the service, the weather, and so on, she indirectly appreciates him, since he feels he provided it. If he brings flowers, then the way she compliments the flowers affects him most. If a dating couple are not yet very close, then the easiest way for him to experience her receptivity and responsiveness is for her to acknowledge and appreciate what he has provided. If she is the right person for him to pursue, this experience generates in him a greater desire to get close to her. When a woman appreciates the flowers a man brings, he ends up feeling more than just complimented. When she says, “I love these flowers,” he not only ends up feeling complimented but gets a glimpse of how it might feel to be loved by her. In this way he has the freedom to get closer or back out. Let’s look at how she might ripen up the simplest of compliments, “I love these flowers.” 1. These flowers are so nice; I love them. 2. These flowers are really nice; I love them. 3. These flowers are very nice; I love them. 4. Flowers are always so nice; I love them. 210 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. 5. These are such nice flowers; I love them. 6. These flowers are very nice; I love them so much. 7. These flowers are really so nice; I love them. 8. Flowers are so nice; I really love them. 9. These flowers are such a nice gift; I love them very much. 10. These flowers are really nice. THE BEST COMPLIMENTS ON VENUS A woman particularly appreciates a compliment when it focuses on something she put a lot of herself into. Take sunglasses, for example. A woman generally puts a lot of energy into picking the right glasses for herself. If a man notices those glasses and sincerely likes them or thinks they look good on her, then he will score big by complimenting her on her choice of sunglasses. By complimenting something special in this way, he makes her feel more special. However, not all personal compliments are appropriate. Women can appreciate personal compliments as long as they are G-rated. As you begin to advance through the different stages of dating, they can become more personal. Personal compliments go over big on Venus, but still they need to be done in a friendly, casual tone with no heavy feelings, expectations, or strings attached. They are best given in the same casual tone and manner as one would say, “It was such a great day today” or “I’m sure glad it didn’t rain again” or “I’m so glad the elections are over. I get so tired of watching political advertisements.” ACKNOWLEDGE MEN AND ADORE WOMEN / 211 The best compliments regard something special either about her person or about something on which she has spent a lot of time, thought, energy, or creativity. These are a few examples: SOMETHING SPECIAL ABOUT HER: I really like your smile, your face, your blue eyes (or whatever color), your accent, the color of your hair, the thickness of your hair, the shine of your hair, your hands, your smile, your shiny teeth, your suntan, your soft skin, and so on. SOMETHING SHE HAS PUT TIME INTO: I really like that you are involved with this group; I think it’s great that you volunteer for this program; you are really very generous with your time to help this way; and so on. SOMETHING SHE HAS PUT A LOT OF THOUGHT INTO: I really like the way you do your hair; I love the way you have arranged your apartment; you really have a great sense of color; and so on. SOMETHING SHE HAS PUT A LOT OF ENERGY INTO DOING OR BUYING: You look so great in that hat; you are really a great tennis player; you are in such great shape; you look so healthy; you look so beautiful in that jacket; and so on. SOMETHING SHE PUT A LOT OF CREATIVITY INTO: You are a great dancer; you have such rhythm; you write beautifully; you have such a sense of style in the way you dress; and so on. SOMETHING SHE IS PROUD OF OR FEELS COMPETENT ABOUT: You are really a very talented designer; you are a brilliant organizer; you are so committed to work; you are such a respon212 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. sible and loving mother to your kids; you do such a good job around here; and so on. FOLLOW A COMPLIMENT WITH A QUESTION After giving a personal compliment, it is usually good to follow it with a question. Ultimately a man can best get to know a woman if he asks questions and she talks. The more he gets her to talk and share, the more opportunity there is for her to discover how much she is attracted to him. Asking a question after making a compliment also helps a woman to open up to receive the compliment. From this more receptive place, she can begin to share herself by answering his question. These are some examples: “I really like your red hair. Do you get a lot of compliments about it?” “That’s a pretty necklace. Have you had it long?” or, “Where did you get it?” “I really like your accent. Where did you grow up?” or, “How long have you lived here?” “You sure look great tonight. Did you just get here?” “I really like your smile. Did you have a good day?” “You have such pretty eyes. Did you get them from your mother or father?” “I noticed you from across the room and wanted to meet you. Where are you from?” ACKNOWLEDGE MEN AND ADORE WOMEN / 213 “You are really smart. How did you know that?” or, “Where did (or do) you go to school?” “I really like your sunglasses. You have a lot of style. Where did you get them?” “You look so healthy and radiant. How much do you work out?” “I really like your earrings. Where did you get them?” “I really like your shoes; they match your belt perfectly. Are they comfortable?” “You have a great suntan. Where did you get it?” In each of these compliments, by finishing it with a question a man gives the clear message that he continues to be attracted to her. Her responsiveness to his compliments and questions then fuels his ability to pursue her. When a man combines compliments with questions, a woman gets the reassurance she needs to continue to open up. By acknowledging a man’s competence and ability to make her happy, she gives him the confidence to continue pursuing her. With this deeper understanding of how to express our attraction to the opposite sex, we can relate and respond to our partners in a way that brings out the best in them. As a result, the whole dating process can become much more enjoyable. When frustration, disappointment, worry, and embarrassment on a date are minimized, then we are able to experience and assess more accurately the potential of a relationship. Through a series of positive dating experiences, a solid foundation is created to help us recognize when a dating partner is someone special. 14 Men Advertise and Women Share The complaint most frequently expressed by women who are dating is that men talk so much about themselves. Either the man goes on and on talking about what he does, what he can do, and what he has done, or, after the woman does get a chance to talk, he’ll quickly respond with what he thinks she could do, should do, or shouldn’t do. He confidently assumes that his expertise and competence are impressing her, while in reality she is being turned off—feeling ignored, left out, or unimportant to him. As a result, she may mistakenly conclude, “Another man who thinks only about himself.” As we explore men in greater depth, we will see why this conclusion is not entirely correct and what women can do to create a two-way conversation. When I tell men about this complaint, they are generally amazed. They say, “If she doesn’t like me to talk about myself, then why does she ask so many questions? Whenever there is a 214 MEN ADVERTISE AND WOMEN SHARE / 215 quiet moment she begins asking questions. Why do we have to talk all the time anyway? I am fine just being together, watching a movie together, driving somewhere together, listening to music, or doing anything together. I don’t have to talk all the time. I thought she wanted me to talk. Isn’t that what women are always saying, Men don’t talk enough; they don’t communicate’?” These two issues, like so many of the issues we will explore together, can finally be resolved by first understanding how men and women approach dating and relationships. With this new perspective, suddenly we have the information and insight necessary to begin finding the answers to the questions that come up while dating. To understand each other better, let’s once again pretend that men are from Mars and women are from Venus. Let’s go back in time and observe life on Mars and Venus before we came together on Earth. LIFE ON MARS Martians are primarily work-oriented. They value themselves on the basis of their ability to achieve results and success at work. Every Martian instinctively knows that his success is based on three things: his competence, his ability to let others know how competent he is, and the opportunity to serve. Everything in his life is geared toward becoming more effective, letting others know how competent he is, and then being of service. Mars is covered with billboards advertising a host of facts and figures describing what Martians can do, promise to do, and have done. Martians are definitely into advertising and marketing. A man’s life is geared toward becoming more effective, letting others know how competent he is, and then being of service. 216 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. At celebrations on Mars, a military man dresses up by putting on his uniform, which indicates to all who he is, what he can do, and what he promises to do. He then puts on all his medals and awards to let others know his achievements, what he has done. This is not an egocentric man, but a person who is very proud of who he is and what he has accomplished; this is a man whose life is dedicated to saving the lives of others at the risk of losing his own. His dress reflects that expression of who he is. A businessman does the same. On special occasions he demonstrates that he is competent by driving a fine car or wearing an expensive suit with well-polished shoes. What does this say? It says he is successful; other people have experienced his competence and have rewarded him well. If they have trusted him, then you can too. This man can take care not only of himself but of others. Men of all occupations on Mars find ways to identify their expertise and advertise themselves. Certainly not all men do this the same way, but they all do market themselves. Different men have a variety of ways and uniforms to display their expertise, values, and success, but in the end, whether he is wearing a black tux and shiny shoes or blue jeans and white running shoes, he is in some way advertising that he is a “can do” guy, someone you can trust and depend on. Once a man feels he has something to offer, some service to provide, then he uses every opportunity to market himself or what he has to offer. This tendency is definitely present when he dates a woman. His main objective is to let her know that he is the one for her. He is the one who could make her happy. He has what she is looking for. And so he talks to let her know. In short, he uses communication as a medium to advertise his services. Talking about himself is MEN ADVERTISE AND WOMEN SHARE / 217 one of the best ways a man knows to sell himself and to show he cares. A man uses communication as a medium to advertise his services. A man does not instinctively understand what a turnoff it is for him to dominate a conversation by talking about himself on a date. To a woman it appears as if he cares only about number one, himself. He doesn’t realize that instead of talking about himself, she wants him to ask questions and be interested in getting to know her. To her, the sign that he cares would be his full interest in her; his taking time to ask questions, listen, and respond attentively. Instead of talking about himself, a woman wants a man to ask questions and be interested in getting to know her. For a man, the first few dates are like a job interview. He is selling the woman on the idea that he would be great for her. He is showing her his stuff to win her over. No one has ever explained to him that on Venus, the best thing he could do is to get her to talk about herself, her feelings, her likes and dislikes, and her life. DATING IS LIKE A JOB INTERVIEW On Mars, it would be offensive and foolish to go for a job interview and begin interviewing the interviewer. Interviewers are warned about overly aggressive job candidates who try to take over and control an interview by asking a lot of questions about the company. 218 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. A successful Martian would be turned off if someone in the world of work approached him for a job and then immediately turned around, asking him about his feelings, goals, and plans. Before an employer is willing to talk about himself, first he wants to know if the job candidate is qualified for the job. Who’s hiring whom is a very important part of the equation. For a man, asking a lot of questions on a date would be like going to a very successful company for a job interview and asking about its plans for the future or how it first got started. Not only would that be insulting, but he wouldn’t get the job. During the first few dates a man is presenting his résumé: “Here I am; this is what I have done and can do. Ask me anything.” This is his Martian way of opening up and sharing himself. To her, however, when he talks about himself, it is as if he is not interested in her, as if he doesn’t want to get to know her. From his perspective it is just the opposite; the reason he is talking about himself is that he wants to get to know her. He is sharing himself, waiting for her to open up and share with him. She, however, is waiting for him to show some interest and ask her questions. The first few dates for a man are like presenting his résumé: “Here I am; this is what I have done and can do. Ask me anything.” Martians pursue a job only if they want it. A man doesn’t go to the trouble of trying out or proving himself for just anybody. Putting yourself out there to possibly be rejected or fail is not fun. If he is asking her out and then proceeding to talk about himself, it is because deep inside he cares a lot, enough to try to impress her and risk failure. To understand this difMEN ADVERTISE AND WOMEN SHARE / 219 ferent perspective can free a woman to correctly interpret a man’s apparent self-centeredness and recognize it more as a compliment than an insult. Although it is not exactly what she wants, at least he is interested in winning her over. A man generally has no idea that something so useful on his planet, like advertising, could be so counterproductive with a woman. He doesn’t know that manners on Venus are very different. LIFE ON VENUS Venusians have different ways to show they care. Just as Martians are work-oriented, Venusians are relationship-oriented. They value love, communication, and intimacy. Certainly Venusians also work hard and have many other interests, but they find their greatest fulfillment through relationships and their greatest unhappiness from the lack of loving relationships. Every Venusian instinctively knows that her ability to find fulfillment is based on three things: the ability to give love, the demonstration of her ability to have loving relationships, and the opportunity to receive love. Every decision in her life flows in the direction of creating loving relationships to give and receive love. Demonstrating her ability to be loving is more important to a Venusian than advertising her competence in the work world. Particularly when a woman goes on a date, she is more interested and impressed by a man’s ability to have a relationship with her than by his expertise at work. However, this does not mean that a man does not need to have some expertise or competence. A confident and competent man is very attractive to a woman, but what makes her more interested in him is his 220 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. ability to give and receive in a relationship. When a woman has a conversation her objective is to share. A man makes the best impression by asking questions and listening. Sharing in her thoughts and feelings is the way to win a woman over. A confident and competent man is very attractive to a woman, but what makes her more interested in him is his ability to ask questions and listen. On Venus, the way to demonstrate consideration and caring for another person is to ask lots of questions and be careful not to dominate the conversation. When two women get together to talk, one starts out by asking questions and listening with interest. After some time they switch roles. This is the unspoken guideline for sharing on Venus. Even if one of the women talks for a long time, the other woman does not mind because she instinctively knows that her friend will give her the chance to talk. Her time will come. This switching of roles occurs when the person talking stops talking and starts asking questions. Then the listener gets a chance to talk. This, however, works only because both Venusians understand the ritual. With a Martian it doesn’t automatically work. She asks questions and he answers. But he doesn’t know that after she asks him questions he is supposed to ask her questions. When she seems really interested in him, he doesn’t realize that this is a signal that he is supposed to show he is really interested in her by asking questions. When a woman asks a lot of questions, that is a secret Venusian signal that he should stop talking and ask her questions. MEN ADVERTISE AND WOMEN SHARE / 221 When a guy does all the talking, he thinks he is doing all the work and doesn’t even consider in his wildest dreams that she has been waiting for him to demonstrate his interest in her. While this may seem to some men like much ado about nothing, asking questions and listening are the bottom line of how to get to a woman’s heart. Making this tiny adjustment can make a world of difference for any man wanting to win a woman over. WHAT WOMEN CAN DO Women commonly ask me what they can do if a man just talks about himself. The answer here is very simple, but most women would never think to do it because on Venus what I am going to suggest would be very rude…but sometimes when you are with a Martian it’s fine to do as the Martians do and just interrupt. When a man talks too much, do as the Martians do and just interrupt. What a woman can do to stop a man from talking so much is to simply stop asking questions and join in the conversation. She should not wait for him to ask questions or wait to be invited; instead, she should just listen for a few moments or minutes and then start in. While this sounds easy, to make this shift can be very difficult for some women. There are four basic reasons a woman asks so many questions instead of just joining in the conversation: she believes it is polite, she believes it will make him more interested in her, it feels better if he asks, and she has tried interrupting and it didn’t work. Let’s explore each of these beliefs in greater detail. 222 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. 1. It is Polite to Listen On Venus it is rude to just interrupt. If a Venusian wants to talk, she should first ask questions, show interest, and wait for her turn. While this is fine on Venus, it is very different on Mars. Martians expect and want you to join and participate. They don’t mind a friendly interruption. It actually makes the whole process much easier for them. Interrupting and joining in will also make you more attractive to them. 2. He Will Become More Interested in Her If a woman politely listens and asks questions, she thinks that after a while a man will just become more interested in her, but in actuality he will probably become more interested in himself. Most women already know that a man tends to do one thing at a time, but still they don’t realize that if they continue to ask questions a man will do one thing, keep talking. If the woman focuses on him, then he will focus on himself. If she is concerned with pleasing him, then he will be concerned with pleasing himself. If she is concerned with his needs, then he will be more concerned with his needs. He will not even be aware that she is feeling neglected. If she keeps asking questions, he will just assume she has nothing to say. Certainly if she truly enjoys and appreciates what he is saying, then that will make him more interested in her, but for that interest to be lasting, he needs the opportunity to know her. For him to become interested in her beyond the initial physical attraction, she needs to open up and share herself. If she just asks questions about him, then he will become more interested in himself and not her. MEN ADVERTISE AND WOMEN SHARE / 223 When a man talks, he tends to become more interested in what he is saying than in the listener. A woman makes the mistake of thinking a man will be more interested in her if she asks him a lot of questions about himself, because when a man asks a lot of questions to open a woman up it makes her more interested in him. But this is not the case for men. The more a man gets to know a woman, the more interested he can become. When a man does all the talking, he tends to become more interested in what he is saying than in his date. 3. It Feels Better If He Asks It just doesn’t feel very romantic if a woman has to compete to get a word into a conversation. Even though men may have a hard time understanding this feminine experience, it is very true. A woman feels more special if a man shows his interest by being eager to ask questions. If she has to interrupt to be heard, then it feels as though she is not as special. No matter how much she learns about Martians and where they are coming from, a woman feels that if a man is truly interested, then he will ask her questions. When he asks questions, it reassures her that she is special and worthy of love. It is evidence that this man cares about her. It just isn’t as romantic if she has to interrupt. In a perfect world, a man has read this book fifty times and remembers to ask a woman questions, but we don’t live in a perfect world. Until that day it is wise for a woman to 224 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. master the art of politely interrupting. To do this, it is helpful for women to remember that it’s not that he doesn’t care enough to ask questions; it’s that he is from Mars and doesn’t instinctively know how important it is to show he cares by asking questions. He thinks he is showing how much he cares by answering her questions. 4. Interrupting Did Not Work in the Past Another reason it can be hard for women to interrupt is that by the time they do interrupt they are so angry. While a woman is listening, she may begin to resent that he doesn’t even care what she thinks. She may feel humiliated or offended that she is being ignored or excluded. By the time she does interrupt, the tone of her voice indicates to a man that he has done something wrong. To him this doesn’t make sense and seems unfair, because from his side he has been innocently open to her joining in at any time. He feels unjustly attacked or blamed for something he did not do. As a result, he may become defensive and resistant to what she has to say. Naturally, if this has occurred in the past, a woman will have some reservations about trying it again. With an understanding of how men are different, however, a woman can eventually learn to interrupt. THE FIRST STEP In learning to interrupt, the first step for a woman is to remember that men and women approach dating differently. A man’s automatic way of showing interest is to advertise. If he is not taking the time to listen, it is probably because he is advertising. This means he is interested and very receptive to being interrupted. Even if he seems interested only in hearing MEN ADVERTISE AND WOMEN SHARE / 225 his own voice, he is still very receptive to her joining in the conversation. This is hard for a woman to remember because on her planet, a Venusian demonstrates her interest by directly asking questions. It is not just women who misinterpret; men also take things the wrong way. When a woman doesn’t join in a conversation, a man either assumes that she has nothing to say or gets the message that he hasn’t yet earned her acceptance, and so he keeps talking. In either case she ends up feeling neglected and annoyed by his self-centeredness. He unknowingly turns her off so that she eventually doesn’t want to talk to him. By understanding what is easiest for men and women and correctly interpreting the signals, we can relax on a date and do what is most natural. Generally a man will feel relieved when a woman joins in and carries a conversation. It takes the pressure off of him and lets him relax and get to know her. Men are happiest when a woman opens up and shares, while women enjoy carrying the conversation as long as they feel a man is interested. Once we get to understand each other, we are really a perfect fit. A man likes to listen and a woman likes to talk. If she can correctly interpret his behavior, then she can do what she enjoys best and he can do what he enjoys best. Without the correct interpretations, however, she listens when she would rather be talking and he keeps talking when he would rather listen and get to know her. Dating doesn’t have to be a struggle; it can be easy and fun. It is all a matter of how we interpret each other. TIPS FOR INTERRUPTING GRACEFULLY Even with this understanding, it is still awkward in the beginning for a woman to interrupt a man. To be graceful on 226 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. her planet is to listen and wait to be asked. To interrupt just doesn’t feel natural to a woman, because it isn’t natural. But it’s like learning anything new. At first it is awkward to speak a new language, throw a ball, roller-skate, drive a car, type, or ski. In the beginning it seems unnatural or difficult, but after a little practice it becomes not only automatic but second nature. Although it is not really natural, it can become our second nature and seem natural. With some instruction, this process can be much easier. These are some tips for interrupting gracefully. 1. Don’t Say, “Can I Say Something?” It makes you appear out of sync and insecure and breaks the flow of conversation. A man expects a woman to just join in a conversation. He mistakenly assumes that if she is not talking, she has nothing to say. In a similar fashion, she assumes that if he is not asking for her point of view, then he is not interested. The secret for interrupting is to do it assuming that he wants to hear what you have to say. This assumption is generally true, and even if he wasn’t interested, it gives him the opportunity to become interested. When men have conversations, they don’t spend time thinking how to invite the other men into the conversation. The very fact that they are talking to another man is evidence that the other is invited to speak whenever he likes or whenever there is a pause. Instead of asking permission to join a conversation, a woman ideally can just start in with a phrase like “That reminds me of a time when I…,” or simply a phrase like “I think…” or “I like…,” and then take her turn. These simple statements work particularly well. The less words the better. Just join in. MEN ADVERTISE AND WOMEN SHARE / 227 2. Don’t Say, “Are You Ever Going to Take a Breath?” Here the message is that he is doing something wrong. This can be hurtful, particularly if he is trying to win you over. Instead, say, “That’s very interesting. I think…” Whenever a woman tells a man, “That’s very interesting,” he feels heard and is then happy to relax and listen. A graceful interruption allows a man to save face and doesn’t directly point out that he has been talking too long. 3. Don’t Say, “Do You Even Care What I Think?” This makes you seem unnecessarily needy and resentful, and it doesn’t express your most loving self. Instead, be playful. If you feel that your point of view is being excluded, then be playfully assertive, saying something like “Whoa (as if talking to a friendly horse), hold it, I think…” Men appreciate this assertiveness if it is done with a playful tone, definitely not a mistrusting or hurt tone. 4. Don’t Say, “You Don’t Understand…I Feel…” This is the most annoying comment a woman can make to a man. And yet it is her most instinctive and automatic response. Certainly on Venus it is not intended to be offensive. To another Venusian, it is easily understood, and her response will generally be, “Oh, I’m sorry (as in Excuse me, I didn’t mean to bump you), tell me again.” But a Martian’s response is generally the opposite. He will become defensive. If she thinks he doesn’t understand, then that is a signal that she must think he is incompetent. Martians know that they must appear competent whenever possible or they will not be successful. They automatically become defensive. Instead 228 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. of listening, the man wants to explain that he does understand. Ironically and tragically, the more he cares, the more defensive he will become. His new objective is now to explain to her that he does understand. As a result, once again, he is doing the talking and she is doing the listening. All this mess can be avoided if she can practice saying it differently. All she has to say instead of “You don’t understand” is “Let me try to say this differently.” This one little shift will change everything. Now he will listen even more intently. He still clearly gets the message that she didn’t feel heard, but he doesn’t feel the need to defend himself. To get a feel for this, I suggest that a woman practice out loud right now (or as soon as it is appropriate) saying these two phrases. Feel how he might feel in reaction to the first phrase, “You don’t understand,” and then feel how he might react to the suggested phrase, “Let me try saying this differently.” The difference is enormous. The same message is conveyed, but in the first case it seems like an attack and in the second it is a simple request, like “Would you pass the butter?” 5. Don’t Say, “Excuse Me, but Do You Mind If I Say Something?” This approach makes a woman appear powerless and wimpy. It also can be interpreted as unnecessarily negative; as if she is implying that he is not allowing her to say anything. This is the kind of statement you expect from someone who is eavesdropping outside a conversation and wants to suggest something. It implies that the man is not being inclusive, when he feels he has been open to her input all along. Instead, assert yourself gracefully, assuming that what you have to say will be welcome: “That’s right, I think…” or “I never thought of it that way, I thought…” MEN ADVERTISE AND WOMEN SHARE / 229 6. Don’t Say, “Are You Even Interested in What I Think?” This sounds like a criticism and may unnecessarily turn him off. Remember, he is interested in what the woman thinks, but he is waiting for her to interrupt when she has something to say. Instead, say, “That is very interesting. I think…” and then go on to express your opinion. Acknowledging that what a man is saying is interesting before sharing your point of view will make him more interested in what you say. While this seems obvious to men, it is not to women. Women tend to think that if they are interested listeners and ask lots of questions, then the man will stop talking and be interested in what they think. Women make the mistake of assuming that a man is not interested if he doesn’t ask questions. The truth is: If he is talking, it is a sign that he is interested in winning her over. If she then gracefully interrupts, it allows him to become interested in what she has to say and in her. The more she joins in the conversation, the more interested he will become. 7. Don’t Say, “Let’s Talk About…” While this is a fine way to change subjects, it is not a good way to get him to stop talking. His response would generally be, “Okay,” and then he would continue to talk about the new subject. Whenever a woman wants to change the subject, it is generous on her part to take a moment to acknowledge that what the man has said has been valued or appreciated in some way. Men need to feel as if they at least contributed something useful, if not of interest. She could say, “Hmm, I would never have thought of that,” and then just change the subject. There is no need to say, “Now let’s talk about…” 230 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. After making some comment to acknowledge him, just change the subject. 8. Don’t Say, “Well, I Disagree. I Think…” Sometimes women feel the only way to be heard is to bluntly disagree. Sure, it is okay to disagree, but don’t express your disagreement as a way to interrupt. Instead, say something like “I have another take on this…” or “I have another way of looking at that…” These statements are gracious, and they make a man not only open to what a woman has to say but intrigued. It is as if she is saying, “I think what you are saying has merit and I have something different to say about it.” Rather than getting defensive about his point of view, he is intrigued to hear what else can be said. A man is turned on by a woman who is able to express her point of view graciously. A woman should not receptively agree with a man just to appear nice and sweet. That is a surefire way to kill attraction. 9. Don’t Say, “Would You Like to Hear What I Think?” or “Would You Like to Know How I Feel?” All of these kinds of statements make a woman appear to have low self-esteem. Although on Venus these may be considerate ways to interrupt, on Mars they make you appear insecure and insignificant. It is hard for a man to respect a woman if she cannot respect herself. Instead, she could simply say, “I think…” or “I feel…” The best technique for interrupting is always to just step right into a conversation as if it is your turn and you have not been overlooked. MEN ADVERTISE AND WOMEN SHARE / 231 10. Don’t Say, “May I Ask You a Question?” A woman should not wait to get a man’s permission before expressing her opinion. Not only does it put her in a weak and powerless position, but it also makes it very hard for him to listen. Many times a woman will say something like, “May I ask you a question? I once had this experience…” She then goes on to talk about what she wants to say. This is very frustrating to the man because the whole time he is listening, he is trying to figure out your question and prepare an intelligent answer. If you want to talk, definitely don’t disguise it as a question. Instead, just interrupt with a comment like, “That makes sense. I remember an experience I once had…” This is a much more graceful segue and it makes it much easier for him to listen. A man loves to hear that he makes sense, and then he will love to hear what you have to say. Remember that whenever you ask a man questions, he will move into the mode of talking and solving problems. If you want to be heard, don’t ask him questions. Not only does interrupting give you a chance to be heard, but men like it. It is a sign that you are feeling self-assured, that you trust that he cares to listen, that you accept his style of just talking when you want to, that you are connecting to him and willing to join with him in conversation, that you are receptive to what he says, and that you are responsive. I suggest that you now review the above statements and see how they could easily be misunderstood by a Martian to make you appear closed, resistant, resentful, critical, insecure, insignificant, unworthy, unresponsive, and mistrusting. While certainly these are not accurate descriptions, take a few minutes to reflect on how you may appear this way to an unsuspecting Martian. 232 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. WHY MEN DON’T LIKE BEING QUESTIONED Most women are surprised to hear that men don’t like being questioned. Certainly a few questions are fine, but a man prefers it if a woman carries the conversation. As we have explored, when he diligently answers her questions, the last thing he imagines is that she is feeling neglected. He feels he is doing his best to carry the conversation. She asks questions and he answers them. What more could he do to make things better? When a woman asks lots of questions, she assumes that she is being loving and supportive. Asking questions for her is the best way of demonstrating that she can be loving. It is also a way for her to test a man’s ability to have a relationship. If he doesn’t understand Venusian manners, however, and ask questions back, she may get turned off before getting to know him. Just as a man can unknowingly turn a woman off by not asking questions, a woman can unknowingly turn a man off by asking too many questions. Quite often men will express their annoyance about women who ask too many questions. Even if a man is really attracted to a woman, this annoyance can be enough to turn him off. He may not even know why he is turned off, but many times it is simply a woman asking too many questions. Sometimes, however, it is not as simple as just annoying a man by asking questions. There is another aspect. When a woman begins to open up to a man, she will naturally begin to share the events and issues of her day. When she talks about problems, a man mistakenly assumes that she is asking him what to do about them. So even when a woman isn’t asking for his advice, a man may think she is and then proceed to give her some advice. MEN ADVERTISE AND WOMEN SHARE / 233 When a woman talks about problems, a man mistakenly assumes that she is asking him what to do about them. Whether she really is asking a question or he is mistakenly thinking she is asking him to suggest an answer to her problem, a woman needs to understand what turns a man off. It is not just asking a question that is a turnoff; it is how she responds to his answers that makes the difference. If he gets the message that she appreciates his answer, then he will become more interested in her, but if he gets the message that his answer is not enough, then he will eventually become annoyed. With so much confusion between men and women, it is amazing that they ever get together and stay together. It is no wonder there is so much divorce once people do fall in love. Without an understanding of our differences, these very little issues eventually escalate into the enormous tensions that give rise to divorce. When dating couples learn to master these basic communication skills, they can experience the success, intimacy, and fulfillment in their relationship that not only encourage them to move through the five stages of dating but also ensure that they continue to grow in love for a lifetime. In Chapter 15 we will explore some simple ways to apply this new understanding of how men and women think, feel, and communicate differently. 15 Why Men Don’t Call Quite often a man will ask a woman for her number or take her out on a date and then not call. The woman then becomes perplexed and wonders, What went wrong? Is it something I said or did? Does he like someone else better? Will I ever hear from him again? Should I accept other dates? What if he calls while I’m in the shower? Women become annoyed when a man doesn’t call. Most men have no idea why it is so important for a woman to receive that call. Even when things go really well on a date, a man may still not call. There is an explanation. After understanding it, many women are enormously relieved. It is a great comfort finally to understand men and correctly interpret some of their behaviors that at first seem so confusing. With an under234 WHY MEN DON’T CALL / 235 standing of how men approach dating, not only can a woman correctly interpret a man’s behaviors but she can interact in a way that ensures her getting what she needs. First of all, quite often it is the case that a man really enjoyed going on a date, but he still doesn’t call the next day. His not calling does not mean he doesn’t care. When a man doesn’t call the next day, it is often because he is following another set of instincts. WHY WOMEN APPRECIATE A CALL A woman instinctively expects a call because on Venus the way you show someone you really care is to give some reassurance. A call letting her know you had a good time, in a tone of voice conveying that you have warm and friendly feelings, will generally do the trick. Venusians instinctively call each other after spending some time together. While it may be obvious on Venus, a man needs to learn the importance of calling to give a reassuring message. For women, staying in contact is a way to show you really care. When two women friends meet again after not having talked in months or years, one of the first things they do is apologize for not staying in touch. Yet this is not the case between two guys. When two male buddies have not talked in months or years, they are just happy to see each other. They don’t even think about apologizing for not staying in touch. When they get back together, it is as if one day has passed. Yet when women get back together, they need to get reacquainted before they feel really close. This same principle is true between married men and 236 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. women. A man may go out of town for a week. When he gets back, the first thing he wants to do is have sex, but his wife may not feel the same way. Her feeling is “How can you just want to have sex? We haven’t even talked for days. Don’t you even care about how I feel?” She may feel a need to get reacquainted before becoming intimate again. A man doesn’t instinctively understand Venusian manners. In many cases, as we will continue to see, he is clueless. He is just following his innocent and automatic instincts, and actually thinks that by not calling he is ensuring the success of the relationship. His instincts motivate him to wait a while before calling to avoid appearing needy or desperate. He senses that if he is too excited or interested, it may compromise his value to her. THE WISDOM OF WAITING TO CALL On Mars, they are primarily work-oriented. As we have already explored, dating to a Martian is like a job interview. Everyone who has ever applied for a job knows that the worst thing you can do after a job interview is call right away to see if you got the job. Instead, you patiently wait for someone to call you to let you know whether you got it. If you appear too anxious, then you weaken your position. A man instinctively doesn’t reveal his excitement, assuming that if he appears needy it will weaken his position. Instinctively a man knows not to show how much he cares or how much he needs someone. Martians pride themselves on being confident, independent, and autonomous. This principle works in the business world, but it misses in the WHY MEN DON’T CALL / 237 world of intimate relationships with Venusians. When a man finally does call after a date, the woman, having waited, wondering if he was going to call, is at the very least annoyed with him. Her tone of voice clearly lets him know that he has not pleased her. From there the relationship spirals downward. HOW WOMEN REACT WHEN A MAN DOESN’T CALL These are some common comments by women about men who didn’t call back soon after a date: • “When I called him, I couldn’t believe that he seemed so unapologetic.” • “I can’t believe that when he called he didn’t even say he was sorry.” • “He acted as if no time at all had passed.” • “He was so insensitive; he acted as though nothing was wrong.” • “I can’t believe that he just called me out of the blue, months later, as if everything would be fine.” • “I called him the next morning and he asked why I had called. I was so furious. I never talked to him again.” • “When he finally called a week later, I was so hurt. I had to let him know how I felt, but he just didn’t get it.” • “He said he was sorry for not calling, but he didn’t mean it. When I was distant, he didn’t even ask how I felt.” • “I couldn’t believe that he didn’t call me. I called him and told him he should get to know me.” 238 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. In each of these examples, the woman is particularly annoyed by normal and automatic Martian behavior. Without an understanding of how women are different, men will continue to sabotage relationships unknowingly by not calling and women will continue to sabotage relationships by being upset with the men when they do call. When a man finally does call, a woman is either directly combative or indirectly withholding. The radiant woman he first met is no longer so warm, self-assured, and responsive. She now appears mistrusting and rejecting, all characteristics that make most men head for the hills. Instead of having a nice warm conversation when they talk again after a date, they both find their attraction diminishing because of the woman’s reactive feelings. He feels interrogated by her and that he is being treated unfairly, while she feels neglected and mistreated. When a man calls and is met with a rejecting or mistrusting attitude, it is definitely not very encouraging to him. Just as she wants a call to reassure her, he is looking for any encouraging messages that he can be successful in pleasing her. A woman wants a call to reassure her, while a man is looking for any encouraging messages that he can be successful in pleasing her. It is easy to see that by not understanding the different emotional needs of men and women during dating, we may unknowingly turn off the other sex. WHEN A MAN IS NEEDY The truth is that if a man does appear needy, it will be a turnoff to women. If he were to call the next day feeling inseWHY MEN DON’T CALL / 239 cure and needing some reassurance, many women would be turned off. Women are most attracted to a man who is confident. Many men do instinctively know this. What men don’t know is what a turn-on it is to a woman when a man calls the next day after a date to let her know that he had a good time. When he can communicate a feeling that he definitely likes her and wants to spend more time together, it is music to her ears. This kind of confidence not only makes him very attractive to her but also gives her the reassurance she needs and greatly appreciates. Most men don’t realize how much a woman will appreciate him if he calls after a date. When a man starts to understand that women are from Venus, then it starts to make sense. When he learns what works, he does it. Most men just don’t have a clue what a gift it would be if they were to give strong reassuring messages after a date. By giving a woman the reassurance she needs, the man frees her simply to enjoy the relationship and not wonder if things are going well. THREE GOOD REASONS FOR A MAN TO CALL 1. Call to Let Her Talk About the Date Even If You Don’t Have a Lot to Say Since many men don’t have a lot to say after a date, they are not automatically motivated to call. It feels a little foolish to call when you have nothing to say. Call her even if you don’t feel like talking or you have very little to say. You can at least ask her questions. Give her a chance to talk about the date. As she talks, it will remind you of what happened and how you felt. You 240 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. may find you do have something to say. Ask her what she liked about the movie or dinner. When you let her talk about it, she will be able to appreciate you more. By listening to her talk about the date, you will get more points than you got from actually taking her on the date. If you call first before she calls you, then you get bonus points. When you call, if you get her answering machine, let her know you had a great time and then ask her to call you and give her times when you will be available. 2. Call to See If the Attraction Is More or Less Men commonly make the mistake of thinking the attraction is less than it is. After a date, it is a good practice to date a woman again just to see what happens with the attraction. If you are not going to date her again, at least give her a call and talk to see how you feel when talking to her. Sometimes the way she reacts to a call may win you over and rekindle feelings that you may have forgotten. Calling a woman after a date does not mean that you have to ask her out again. It is fine to be unsure. If she makes the mistake of asking, just say you’re busy this week. Although many of us make snap judgments on a first date, for some of us they are not always right. Generally, if the attraction is still there after a date, then it is not only good but fun to pursue it. Remember, taking a woman out a few times does not mean you are leading her on. It is leading her on only if you are sure she is not the right person for you and you behave as if she could be. As we have discussed, when you are feeling uncertain, it is important to continue pursuing a relationship until the attraction dissipates or increases. If you pursue a relationship to its completion, then your future ability to discern and be WHY MEN DON’T CALL / 241 attracted to the right person for you will increase. This practice is particularly important for people who repeatedly find themselves attracted to people who disappoint them. Each time you are able to follow your feelings of attraction and then, after you get to know the person that person goes away, you are actually preparing yourself to be attracted to the right one. 3. Call as a Courtesy and an Expression of Good Manners Even if you are not sure that you want to pursue the relationship, it is still important to call. Let her know you had a good time. On her planet it is just good manners. It doesn’t mean you want to marry her. She will appreciate it, and so will the next man who pursues her. Just as men like to be encouraged by knowing that a woman had a good time, a woman needs to feel reassured that she is worthy of being loved. By calling and letting her know you had a good time, it makes her feel good. Each time you go out of your way to respect a woman’s need, it makes you more attractive to all women. Even if you don’t go out on a date, but just ask a woman for her number, make sure you call. Otherwise you are just another jerk making it worse for other men. If you ask a woman for her number, at least give her a call. When a man asks a woman for her number, the least he can do is give her a call. Quite commonly a man doesn’t call back when he is not planning to pursue a relationship because he figures that calling a woman to reject her could be construed as presumptuous. He assumes that it would be insulting in some 242 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. way to call. He would feel arrogant to presume that she liked him and would want him to pursue the relationship. For many men, dating is like the process of buying a house. If you are looking for your dream home, each time you visit a house on the market, you don’t call back and say you are not interested. It is expected that if you don’t make an offer you are not interested. No one particularly cares what you think about the house unless you go back several times and make an offer. In a similar way, if a man has actively pursued a relationship with several dates, then generally most men will feel the need to end the relationship officially with a call. Yet because some men don’t know how to end relationships gracefully, they still don’t call. A man may think that by not calling he is sparing a woman the experience of being directly rejected. One male friend of mine was completely surprised when years later a woman remembered him with a lot of annoyance because he hadn’t called her back after a couple of dates. Commonly a man thinks by not calling he is ending the relationship gracefully. A man tends to give what he would like to receive. If a woman doesn’t want to go out with him, he generally doesn’t want her to call and tell him directly. He makes a few calls and she generally says she is busy or she is seeing someone else, and so he gives up. He doesn’t go around complaining to other guys that she didn’t call him back. And yet women do feel neglected and disrespected when a man doesn’t call, particularly when he says he will or if he didn’t clearly close out the relationship on their last date. This is why women are annoyed. If it is a great date, he WHY MEN DON’T CALL / 243 doesn’t call; if he is not sure, he doesn’t call; and if he wants to end it, he doesn’t call. No wonder dating can be so frustrating and disappointing. Another reason a man generally won’t call is that he doesn’t want to burn any bridges. He incorrectly imagines that by not calling and officially rejecting her, if he changes his mind in the future she will be receptive to his asking her out. When a man is uncertain, his approach may be to do nothing and say nothing that could be used against him. His experience is that women remember everything. What he doesn’t realize is that they also remember when he doesn’t call. Some men postpone calling because they are not sure and they don’t want to burn any bridges. Sometimes when a man is not sure he will just postpone. He likes to think things over a lot before he gets involved. He doesn’t want to lead a woman on or disappoint her. The irony here is that not calling sometimes has the effect of stringing her along and upsetting her much more. Just a call to acknowledge her existence would make a world of difference. Sometimes a man knows clearly that he doesn’t want to date a woman again, but he doesn’t want to face having to reject her or hurt her. Men like to please women, not disappoint them. Most men just don’t know how to call and say, “I had a good time; thanks and good luck.” For a man it seems really awkward to say, “Have a good life,” or “I don’t think I will want to take you out again.” Particularly when she asks, “Why?” For a man it seems really awkward to call back just to say, “Have a good life!” 244 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Just the thought of her asking, “Why don’t you want to get to know me?” is upsetting. He doesn’t know how to deal with a question like that. Instinctively he knows it is completely inappropriate to give a list of reasons why you don’t like someone. If she really needs the feedback, a friend should let her know. It is not his job, particularly if he doesn’t want to pursue the relationship. A man generally doesn’t know that if she asks why, he can still be polite and say something like, “I don’t think I am the right person for you,” and just keep repeating that as his answer if she keeps asking the question. That is polite and it is good enough. If you don’t have anything good to say, then don’t say anything. To be completely accurate, when you don’t want to pursue someone, one simple answer will do: “I don’t feel enough chemistry to pursue a relationship.” You either feel or don’t feel enough chemistry to pursue a relationship. It is not about the other person at all. Some people like mangoes and some don’t. Whether you like mangoes has nothing to do with the intrinsic value of mangoes; it has to do with you. There is nothing wrong with you or with the mango if you don’t like mangoes. In stage one (attraction), when you are not interested in pursuing a woman, the easiest and sometimes the best way to let her know is to call back and leave a message on her answering machine when you know she is at work. This is a great solution and most women will greatly appreciate at least getting the call instead of being ignored and wondering if you are going to call. In stage two (uncertainty), when you are not sure you are interested in pursuing a relationship, it is also acceptable to leave a message. In this case you simply acknowledge the truth, that you had a good time and you will get back to her in a few weeks. WHY MEN DON’T CALL / 245 In stage three, when you have been in an exclusive relationship, it is definitely not acceptable. A breakup needs to be direct. No matter how painful or difficult, she needs the opportunity to react and be heard. She deserves it and will appreciate being heard. TEN POLITE WAYS TO CALL BACK Even when a man is motivated to call back, he doesn’t because he just doesn’t know what to say. Whether you are not sure you are interested or you are definitely not interested, these are some polite ways to say the truth and be positive. 1. Time Will Tell “It was really nice meeting you. I had a good time with you at the party. I’ll see you around.” This lets her know that you are not interested in pursuing her at this time, but that you are not burning any bridges either. 2. Good Luck “Thanks so much for going out with me. It was a pleasure to meet you. I had a nice time. Good luck and I hope you do well at school (or with that project, etc.).” This is a graceful and considerate way of letting her know that you will not be pursuing the relationship, without having to mention the relationship word. Men just don’t feel comfortable saying, “I am not going to pursue this relationship.” This approach also does not prevent you from calling her up again if you want to date her again. Instead of saying “Have a good life,” it is good to personalize your statement, wishing her good luck with something 246 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. personal like a trip she is planning, a family situation, or a challenge at work. These are some more examples: “Good luck, and I hope your new business does well.” “Good luck, and I hope you have a safe journey to visit your brother.” “Good luck, and I hope you successfully resolve that mess with your landlord.” “Good luck, and remember to drink lots of water for your cold.” “Good luck, and have a great time on your vacation.” “Good luck, and I hope you find the keys to your garage.” 3. Postponement “I had a great time yesterday. I have a lot of pressure at work (or I have a really busy schedule) and I need to focus on that right now. I probably won’t be calling for a few weeks. I’ll be looking forward to seeing you again.” When you are busy at work and don’t have the time or energy for dating, a friendly call to let her know will be greatly appreciated. Remember, she doesn’t have any idea why you are not calling. Women greatly appreciate being reassured that all is well. 4. Getting Involved with Someone Else “I’m really glad I got to know you. I’ve decided that I want to get involved with someone else, and so I won’t be WHY MEN DON’T CALL / 247 calling. Thank you for being so much fun; I really enjoyed the time we spent together.” This approach should be used only if it is true and if you have dated a woman more than three times. And even then, it should not be used the day after a date. It might be shocking for her to hear that you decided to get involved with another woman after spending time with her. Although this happens a lot, it seems too quick to her and may make her feel that you really didn’t care about her. Even if after a date a man has decided to see someone else, he should at least give himself a few days to decide for sure. In the meantime, he should give her a call after the date and just let her know he had a good time. Then, after waiting a few days or a week, he should call and let her know he has decided to get involved with someone else. When you decide to get involved with someone else, never say why. It is hurtful to describe why another person is more desirable to you. It is enough to say you decided. If she wants to know why, simply let her know it is just a feeling in your heart that says you are not the right guy for her. Don’t say how great the other woman is with statements like, “Oh, she’s perfect for me; she is so beautiful,” or “She is so wonderful.” Nor is it polite to compare by saying things like, “She has more time for me,” or “She doesn’t experience big mood swings.” This kind of brutal honesty is hurtful and not easily forgotten. Even if she says she really wants to know, it is still not appropriate and is uncalled for. 5. Not Ready “Thank you for a wonderful date. I realized I am still dealing with a past relationship, and I don’t think I am ready to 248 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. be dating a lot. I hope you don’t mind if I call sometime in a few months. This really isn’t the right time for me.” This is particularly useful when you are trying to figure out if you want to have an exclusive relationship with someone. Once you think you might want an exclusive relationship, it is important to start one and see if you like it. It is hard to decide if you definitely want to be exclusive with one woman while you are continuing to see other women. Once you think you want an exclusive relationship, it is important to start one and see if you like it. 6. Not Available “I had a really good time with you. But I realized that I am not really available right now. I need to take some time for myself. So I won’t be calling for a while.” There is nothing wrong with realizing that you are not into dating. If this is the case, make sure you let her know; otherwise she will wonder what went wrong. 7. Ready to Move On “I really liked spending time with you, but I think I am ready to move on. I wanted to let you know it was nothing you said or did. I just realized I needed a change. Thanks and I hope you find the right guy for you.” Sometimes we are not ready for an exclusive relationship. At a certain point, if we are not ready, then no matter how good a relationship is we may need to move on. If this is the case, it is important to let her know. WHY MEN DON’T CALL / 249 8. Wrong Timing “I really enjoyed being with you. I don’t think the timing is right. You are in the process of ending a relationship. I’ll give you a call in a few months. I hope things work out for you.” Or, “Thanks for a wonderful time. I realized that I am still in the process of ending my last relationship and it wouldn’t be fair to you. Maybe I’ll call in a few months when things get resolved with my last relationship.” Rebound relationships are fine as long as you and your partner are not expecting an exclusive relationship. Keep in mind that when people have just ended a relationship, to a certain extent they are empty and seeking to be filled up. Their discernment is generally at an all-time low. Thirsty or hungry people are generally not very picky about what they eat, but once they are well fed, it is time to be picky again. 9. Not Sure “I had a great time the other night. I wanted you to know I’m not sure if I want a relationship right now. So I probably will not be calling for a while.” When you are in stage two and you are uncertain about a woman, it is considerate and good manners just to let her know what is happening. It is okay to be uncertain, but it is not okay just to ignore her and go on as if she didn’t exist. If she starts asking you a lot of questions—“How do you feel about me?” “Is there someone else?” “Did I do something?” “Is there a problem?”—you don’t have to talk a lot. Instead, answer her questions with questions. Get her to talk and then listen. Listening to her feelings will actually help you move through the stage of uncertainty more quickly. 250 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. If she asks, “How do you feel about me?” answer briefly, “I like you very much.” Then ask her, “How do you feel about me?” and then listen. If she asks, “Is there someone else?” then say briefly, “Well, like I said, I am unsure right now.” Then ask her, “Is there someone other than me?” and then listen. If she asks, “Did I do something wrong or upsetting to you?” answer briefly, “I am not sure.” Then ask her, “Have I done something to upset you?” and then listen. If she asks, “Is there a problem that I don’t know about?” answer briefly, “I am not sure.” Then ask her, “Is there a problem that I don’t know about?” and then listen. Remember, when you are in the second stage, you just don’t realize it is a time to think things over. Get different experiences. Don’t burn any bridges or attempt to build any. It is a time for a man to back away as much as he feels the need to before deciding if he wants to move forward to the third stage, exclusivity, or back to stage one, following his attractions. 10. Not Right for Each Other “I think it’s clear we are not right for each other, but I wanted to call and at least say thanks and wish you happiness.” In the first two stages, both men and women must feel free to experiment and move on. Until you are in an exclusive relationship, it is not appropriate to have any expectations that a person should continue in a relationship. If a man or woman does have these kind of expectations, it is generally a major turnoff. Dating in stages one and two is a time to experiment. One is not under any obligations at all. There is no guilt in wanting to move on. Sometimes the easiest way is just to say, “I don’t think we are right for each other,” and move on. WHY MEN DON’T CALL / 251 This tenth approach, however, is generally most applicable for someone in stage three who wants to break up. He has taken the time to get to know someone and feels they are not right for each other. All of the ten approaches above make it a little easier to move from relationship to relationship until you find the most special one for you. These same approaches can also be used by women to say no politely to a man’s approaches or requests for a date. Women, however, can just say, “I am not interested in that kind of relationship with you. I would rather just be friends.” That is all the explanation a man needs. To close out a relationship, a woman can just say, “I am not interested in that kind of relationship with you. I would rather just be friends.” This approach is very safe for a woman to use because in most cases, she (unlike most men) does want to be friends. Even if she doesn’t really want to be involved much as a friend, she knows that when she says she just wants to be friends, he won’t be calling. THE BENEFITS OF MOVING ON Although it is only good manners to call and close out a relationship, there are other benefits as well. The way we close a relationship determines the kind of person we will be attracted to next time. If we must become indifferent to our feelings to end a relationship, or if we feel some kind of guilt, then we will tend to 252 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. repeat patterns. When we end a relationship with good feelings, we will take another step closer to the partner of our dreams. If you can’t easily end relationships in stages one and two, then it will be much harder to move through the next stages. Once again, remember that the attraction stage is a time to discover your likes and dislikes and to get to know the kind of person you are and what you want. Being able to say no to someone because he or she is not the right person for you strengthens your resolve to find the right person. Saying no also helps you adjust and make more accurate your ability to be attracted and turned on to the kind of partner with whom you would want to pursue a long-term relationship. This same principle is equally true for women and men. The very act of saying no to a relationship that is not right for you fine-tunes your ability to be attracted to the person who is right for you. 16 To Call or Not to Call Women today are looking for a new kind of relationship, not the kind their mothers and fathers may have had. They want intimate communication and lasting romance. To achieve this end, new skills are definitely required. A woman today needs to be not only soft and feminine but also assertive. Many successful women have learned to be assertive in the work world, but still wonder why they are single. They haven’t yet learned the art of being assertive and feminine. For most women, this is not easy because they have no role models. Either they saw their fathers being assertive and their mothers being accommodating or it was the other way around: Their mothers were dominant and their fathers were yielding and passive. Most women have not yet learned the art of being assertive and feminine. 253 254 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. For our parents’ generation, it was taboo for a woman to call a man. That was considered too pushy and not feminine. Women were warned by their mothers, Don’t be too easy, too available, too accommodating, or he will not respect you. Well, they were not making this up. It was true then and it still is. Whenever a woman pursues a man more than he is pursuing her, he will pursue her less. Why should he risk failure when she is happy to pursue him? Automatically, he will relax more and become more passive about the relationship. Instead of thinking what she may want, he begins thinking more about what he wants. This turnaround is very confusing for a woman because her assertive approach is successful in the working world but backfires on a date. When a woman pursues a man, automatically he will relax more and become more passive about the relationship. These women are just not aware that men need to be successful in their pursuit in order to discover whether they really care for a woman. Certainly a woman who pursues men does sometimes succeed in getting a man, but often the consequence is not what she had hoped. When they get married and she wants to relax and simply be herself, he loses interest. In some cases, once they settle down and she stops pursuing him, he finally gets the opportunity to feel his desire to please her and pursue. In this case his interest in her finally gets a chance to rise. This is not always the case, though; more often he just loses interest. This tendency also shows up in dating. Quite often a woman will decide to end a relationship and then the man TO CALL OR NOT TO CALL / 255 suddenly becomes more interested. She then blames him for this, because she doesn’t understand her part in sabotaging the relationship. She mistakenly assumes that he is not right for her because he wants her more now that she decides to respect herself and stop pursuing him. His renewed interest can actually be a great sign. Quite often a woman will decide to end a relationship and then the man suddenly becomes more interested. A seed cannot sprout unless it is given the right conditions. Similarly, a man’s attraction and interest in a woman cannot grow if she is too assertive and aggressive. When a woman stops pursuing a man, she gives him the opportunity to find within himself the desire to pursue. In early stages of dating, his ability to be interested in her is like a burning candle: Too much interest and pursuit from her side can easily snuff it out. The five stages of dating ensure that you don’t have to take unnecessary chances. Before marrying your partner, you will have experienced that he or she fully knows you, likes you, loves you, and is still attracted to you. Your partner is interested in you without your having to play any games or try to be more than you are. Having said all this, there are still ways for women to call men without sabotaging the potential of a relationship. This issue of whether a woman should call or not, particularly in stages one and two of dating, can be critical in determining the outcome of a relationship. A deeper understanding of the way men and women think and feel differently can create many new options for a woman to be assertive and feminine. 256 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. A WOMAN’S OPTIONS When a man takes longer than a woman would expect to call back, a woman is generally upset for two reasons. The first reason is that she doesn’t instinctively understand that he is from Mars and that he doesn’t understand Venusian manners. The second reason she is upset is that she has waited days for his call, feeling powerless. She wants to call but she doesn’t. Everyone tells her she shouldn’t call, and instinctively there is a part of her that doesn’t want to call, but another part wants to call. In a perfect world, it would feel better to her if he called her. When he calls, it makes her feel special. If she has to call and ask questions to be reassured, no matter what he says, it is still not as nice as if he were to call on his own. But all is not so hopeless. With an understanding of men, there are other options. To make the time pass more quickly she has two options, and both are good suggestions. Option One: Fill Up Your Time The first option is fill your life up with activities and relationships so that you are not just waiting by the phone. There is no greater mistake than to stop your life for a man. A man is most interested and attracted to a woman whose life is full, but who happily makes some room for him. He is less attracted if she needs him to fill up her life and schedule. He is most attracted when she needs him to share the fullness of her life. To a certain extent, a woman should think of romantic relationships as a special dessert and let other relationships with friends and family be the main meal to fill her up. When she finds herself anxiously waiting for a man’s call, it is a TO CALL OR NOT TO CALL / 257 sign she needs to focus on finding fulfillment through her other relationships. Needing a man for everything will ultimately sabotage a relationship with him. No man can satisfy all of a woman’s needs. He may think he can, but he can’t, and it is a big mistake to expect him to. The pressure it eventually puts on him will push him away. Option Two: Give Him a Call The second option is to give him a call. For many women this approach has never worked, and as a result they just don’t call. Some women continue to call, although it does not help the relationship. They just assume that it wouldn’t have worked anyway and move on. With an understanding of how men are different, it is possible to call a man and have a great conversation, get the reassurance you may like to hear, and support the unfolding of the relationship. To call a man after a date it can be helpful to follow these guidelines. SEVEN GUIDELINES FOR CALLING A MAN AFTER A DATE 1. Don’t Call If You Are Upset with Him It is generally a mistake to call a man and be upset with him for not calling. Many women do call and tell him how upset they feel. When the man doesn’t get it, that’s the end of the relationship. Unfortunately, this prevents the natural unfolding and development of the relationship. It is a mistake to call a man and be upset with him for not calling. 258 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. If you are upset, then definitely don’t call a man. Talk to a girlfriend if you need to share your feelings. After airing your feelings, you will probably feel much better, particularly if you remember that men are from Mars and they have different instincts. Remember, the reason a man doesn’t call is that his instincts are different. 2. Don’t Ask Questions Just as women complain when men do not call back, men complain about women who want to talk about the relationship. Unless a man is entering the commitment stage of dating, he generally doesn’t like to talk about the relationship or define it. Men just want to live in the moment and see where things go. They want to let it develop, like planting a seed. It doesn’t work to keep digging it up each day to see if it is sprouting. Just as women complain when men do not call back, men complain about women who want to talk about the relationship. There is a way for a woman to get the reassurance she may be needing. Instead of calling to ask for it, try calling to give him what he may be needing. Just as a woman greatly appreciates a man’s call to reassure her that he is interested and had a good time, a man greatly appreciates being encouraged by messages that he was successful in making her happy. Don’t call to ask questions, but instead call to share a few good feelings. If he does not feel pressured to make any reassuring statement, then his natural appreciation for her good feelings will be reassuring enough. These are some examples of questions that you do not want to ask. TO CALL OR NOT TO CALL / 259 Five Questions Not to Ask a Man After a First Date Are you seeing anyone else? This implies that he should not be seeing anyone else. In the attraction stage of a relationship, it is perfectly fine to be seeing others. If he is seeing someone and he has to lie, this will definitely prevent him from eventually finding true feelings for you. It is inappropriate in stage one to feel pressured to see only one person. Do you want to spend more time with me? This is too pushy. It makes him feel as if you are too needy and demanding. Already he feels sucked into a relationship, and he is not necessarily ready for that. Remember, this is stage one. In stage three, we naturally begin to think about commitment and a possible future together. Did you have a good time? Do you like me? (Both imply: Would you like to get together again?) This weakens a woman’s position. It implies that you feel insecure and hope that you have pleased him. There is also a feeling of obligation implied; that is, if you have pleased him, then he should please you. A man needs to feel clearly that he is not obligated in any way to pursue the relationship. There are no strings attached in stage one. How much time do you have available for a relationship? (or, Are you busy this week? or, What are you going to do next weekend?) 260 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. What do you expect him to say? “Yes, I have plenty of time because my life is empty and I have no friends”? Just as this would make him appear unlovable and undesirable, to ask him this question actually makes you appear just as undesirable and unloved. In stage one, any indication that you are planning a future together is premature and can push him away. This question is just as untimely as asking if he wants to get married soon and have kids. He will let you know when he is ready. When would you like to get together again? This is way too pushy. You might as well ask him to get out his calendar to schedule a date. 3. Make Positive Comments Instead of asking questions, the secret of calling a man is to make positive comments. Let him know how you feel; don’t ask him how he feels. Let him know that you had a good time; don’t ask him how he felt. Avoid asking questions like the plague. Instead of asking questions, use F.Y.I.O.—“for your information only”—statements. These comments do not make or even imply any request for information regarding his feelings or intentions. These are some examples: Statements that Men Love to Hear “I really loved that movie, it was great! The scene…” “I had such a good time the other night. The food at Greens restaurant was definitely the best…” TO CALL OR NOT TO CALL / 261 “That show was so great. I got the CD. It was so dramatic. My favorite song…” “I had so much fun at the fair. I can’t believe I had never been before. I told my sister about that giant Ferris wheel…” “That soup we had was really fantastic. I can’t figure out what they put in it. I think it was baked eggplant and garlic…” “I love Chinese food. I’m so glad you picked Jennie Low’s. I felt so good afterward…” “Thanks for building those shelves in my garage. They look so great. I put all my old albums out there…” “I am so glad you decided to stop and get a dessert. It was so good…” “I remembered today what you said last night and realized that it made a lot of sense. I think I am going to…” “I had such a good time last night.” The direct way to a man’s heart is through complimenting and appreciating the things he provided. When a man experiences a positive response to the things he does or provides for her, he is more inclined to feel attracted. This is how a man’s affection for a woman grows. 4. Talk About What Happened, Not About Him “I really liked the movie we saw. It was great…” (and then talk about what you liked about the movie). 262 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. He feels, “She liked the movie. She is fun to do things with. I like her.” Talking about what happened goes directly to his heart. Don’t say, “I really liked spending time with you.” The implied message is the question, “Did you like spending time with me? Do you want to spend more time with me?” He may now feel some obligation to spend time together so that you will not feel rejected. Instead of focusing on his success, he is now thinking about how he may fail you. Men are attracted to success. When a man feels he is a success in fulfilling a woman, he is more attracted to her. Talking about the movie frees him to connect with you without feeling any pressure to spend more time together. When you say you liked the movie, he can join in. When you say you liked him, then the only way for him to connect is to be arrogant and agree that many women like him or to connect by saying he likes you too. To come out and say he likes you may be too much at this early stage of the relationship. The less pressure he feels to spend time together frees him to desire to spend more time together. 5. Let Him Know the Positive Responses You Had and Leave Out the Negative In stage one of a relationship, let him just see the supportive and positive side of your personality. When you talk about the date, let him know primarily your positive responses and leave out the negative. Otherwise, he might mistakenly begin to think that you are a difficult woman to please. What allows a man to grow in attraction and form an TO CALL OR NOT TO CALL / 263 emotional bond of affection is feeling that he can be successful in making you happy. A man forms an emotional bond of affection as he succeeds in making a woman happy. A woman is generally unaware of this Martian sensitivity. If the movie isn’t any good, she may feel, “Well, all is not lost; at least we can talk about how bad it was.” Regardless of whether the movie is good or bad, she looks forward to talking about it. Venusians experience the bond of affection growing as they feel heard and understood. After a lousy experience on a date, a women will actually look forward to talking about it in great detail. She generally has little awareness of how it makes him feel. 6. Don’t Give Advice on Anything, but Instead Ask for Advice Even if a woman thinks a man would greatly benefit from her advice on a particular matter, she must be very careful not to offer any unsolicited advice. Even if he asks, she should still be careful. Men like to feel that they can offer a woman some expertise. Men need to feel that they have something to offer. When a woman brings more to him than he feels he can bring to her, it has the same effect as when a woman pursues a man. Men also don’t like it when a woman quotes another expert. This is another way women give advice. They quote other people or experts to make their point. This can be an immediate turnoff. It is fine if the man is asking for advice, but for a woman to quote someone when he is not asking is even worse than if she were to offer direct advice. 264 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Men and women come to relationships for different reasons. A man is most interested in a relationship when he feels he has something to offer and share. When he feels good about himself and his work, then he wants to share that with a woman. The more competent a man feels in the presence of a woman, the more attracted he will be to her. To increase the opportunity for a man to feel attracted to a woman, if she feels she would like his advice on something, then by all means she should ask. Whenever a man gets to feel useful to a woman, he will feel more proud of himself and like her more. The more interested a woman is in what a man can offer her, the more interested he becomes in her. When she does ask for his advice, her response is very important. If she disagrees with his advice or doesn’t like it, she must be careful to allow him to save face. He needs to at least get the message that she appreciated his attempt to help. Another man would instinctively know how to do this, but a woman will not. Without an understanding of our differences, a woman commonly turns a man off by pointing out what she doesn’t like about his advice. Particularly when she doesn’t want to use the advice, she will think it is polite to explain in great detail why she disagrees with it. In the end he feels frustrated, as if he has wasted his time. If a woman disagrees with his advice or doesn’t value it enough to use it, then these are some comments that will allow him to save face. These are the kind of comments any man would give to another out of respect: “That’s a good idea. I would have never thought of that. Thanks. That’s very helpful.” “That’s very interesting. Thanks. That makes it easier for me to figure out what to do.” TO CALL OR NOT TO CALL / 265 “I certainly had not looked at it from that point of view. This will be very helpful for me in figuring out what to do. Thanks.” “This is so helpful. I didn’t realize…I think I am closer now to making a decision.” “That’s a great point. It really helps me finally to figure out what to do.” “That sure makes sense. I’m glad I talked to you. Hearing different points of view sure helps to clarify things. Thanks.” 7. Don’t Offer to Help Him in Any Way, but Instead Ask for His Help The more a man succeeds in helping a woman, the more attracted he will be to her. A woman also experiences a greater attraction to a man when he is helpful to her. She then mistakenly turns this around and assumes that if she is helpful to him, he will be more attracted to her. This is not true. Certainly a man will appreciate a woman’s help if he has asked for it, but offering help can easily backfire and make a man feel mothered and smothered. If a man wants help he will generally ask for it. When a woman offers to help it can easily make her appear too eager to win his affections, or it can come across as an insult. On Mars, they don’t offer unsolicited help. To offer to help a man carry a box implies that he doesn’t have the strength to do it himself. To help a man solve a problem implies that he doesn’t have the competence to do it himself. Men are very picky about receiving help because they really 266 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. like proving that they can do things alone, if they can. If they can’t, then it is fine to ask for help, and they will. To offer to help a man solve a problem implies that he doesn’t have the competence to do it himself. When talking to a man in person or on the phone, it is important to remember not to offer advice, and not to suggest that he get help for something. This can be a real turnoff. He is not stupid. He knows he can get advice. I remember once when I was trying to fix the toilet, my wife sensed my frustration and came in hoping to help. After a while, she said, “I bet if you called the plumber, he would know what to do.” In her mind, she was just letting me know that I didn’t have to fix it. While she was just being polite on her planet, it was an insult on Mars. I certainly already knew that I could call a plumber. I didn’t need her to tell me that. The best thing she could have done would have been just to ignore my frustration and go about her business. When a woman calls a man back, she must be very clear about this. If she calls to offer help, she loses him. If she calls to get help, he will feel complimented. HOW TO ASK A MAN OUT With this in-depth understanding of men, it becomes clear why it works best for the man to ask the woman out. There are some ways that a woman can ask a man out without being too aggressive about it or running the risk of becoming the pursuer. Instead of asking him out on a romantic date, she can ask him to help her with something or accompany her some TO CALL OR NOT TO CALL / 267 where. As long as she is genuinely asking him for something that would make her life more comfortable and fulfilled, then it is fine to ask. Ideally, the request should be practical and not romantic. These are some examples: “Would you please help me pick out a barbecue grill this weekend?” “Would you please help me move some boxes in my garage?” “Would you please help me change the lights in my backyard?” “Would you please help me go shopping for a car?” “Would you please read this article I am writing and tell me what you think?” “Would you please pick me up after I drop my car off to get it fixed?” “Would you help me fix the light fixture in my attic? It’s not working.” “I have been sick with a cold. Would you please pick up take-out dinner for me? I don’t think I should be going out tonight.” “Would you please come with me to pick up a package at the airport?” “Would you please help me feed my horses today? My brother got sick.” “Would you help me take my dog to the vet? He got really sick. I don’t want to go alone.” 268 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. “Would you please help me buy a new computer?” “Would you please help me buy a new stereo?” “Would you please help me figure out my VCR?” “Would you please help me rearrange my furniture?” In each of these examples, the man has the opportunity to be a friend, but more important, the woman has been able to create a fertile opportunity for him to experience being helpful to her and thus become more attracted to her. In Chapter 17, we will explore more deeply the dynamics of what makes a man more interested in a woman. 17 Men Love a Woman with a Smile Something undefined gets turned on in a woman when a certain man looks at her in a certain way. Likewise, something just awakens in a man when a woman smiles or laughs in a certain way or simply brushes up against him. That undefined something can be explained: a man gets turned on when a woman’s radiance makes him feel more like a man; a woman gets turned on when a man’s attention makes her feel more like a woman. Ultimately, a man is most attracted to a woman when she makes him feel masculine. In a similar manner, a woman is most attracted to a man when his presence makes her feel feminine. The greatest power a man or woman can gain to create attraction is the ability to awaken in another more of who the other is. When a woman makes a man feel masculine, his body is filled with the fire of desire to get close, and he becomes pur269 270 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. poseful. He feels inspired to be better, and he is motivated to fulfill her needs: He wants to be with her, to get to know her, and, in some magical manner, his life suddenly has more meaning. He is excited by the thought of winning her over and encouraged by a feeling in his gut that says confidently, I could make her happy. As he is magnetically drawn to her, she brings out the best in him. A man is excited by the thought of winning a woman over and encouraged by a feeling in his gut that says confidently, I could make her happy. When a man makes a woman feel feminine, her mind is stimulated and intrigued; she feels warm, tender, and vulnerable inside; her heart begins to open as she remembers that she is special; she is excited by the thought of being seen, heard, and desired; and she is reassured by the possibility of getting what she wants and needs. As she is magnetically drawn to him, his active interest brings out the best in her. A woman is excited by the thought of being seen, heard, and desired and reassured by the possibility of getting what she wants and needs. It is this feeling of being inspired to be our best that can make dating and relationships so fulfilling. For many, these good feelings are hit and miss. Sometimes they are there and sometimes not. By understanding the dynamics of what makes men and woman attracted to each other, dating can not only begin to fulfill our need for intimacy but can also help us discover and express the best parts of who we are. What allows a woman to bring out the best in a man can MEN LOVE A WOMAN WITH A SMILE / 271 be summarized in one expression: feminine radiance. When a woman expresses her feminine radiance she is generally embodying the three basic characteristics of femininity: she is self-assured, receptive, and responsive. It is these three qualities that make a man most attracted to her. What allows a man to bring out the best in a woman is his masculine presence. When a man expresses his masculine presence he is generally embodying the three basic characteristics of masculinity: he is confident, purposeful, and responsible. It is these three qualities that make a woman most attracted to him. With an awareness of these different characteristics, we can begin to understand why some dates work and others don’t. With this insight we can gain the power to attract the right person for us. WHEN WOMEN ARE FROM MARS After reading my book Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus, some women realized that they too were from Mars and that this was the primary reason they were not attracting the right guy. When I described how men think and feel, it was also the way they thought and felt. Certainly there was a part of them that related to the Venusian side of themselves, but it was not a big part of their lives. This role reversal is very common, particularly with women who are very active and committed to their careers. At a certain point, they want to be married, but they continue to get involved with “guys who don’t commit.” The irony is that many of those same guys who don’t commit will turn around and get married right away to someone else. As we will see, it is not necessarily who we are that makes or breaks a relationship, but how we express and communicate who we are. 272 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. When a woman comes from her Martian side, she can certainly make a man feel good, but she can never really bring out the best in him. It is only when she takes the time and has the awareness to develop and express her attributes from Venus that she can bring out the Martian in him. This is not automatic, because women today are pressured to be like men during the day at work. Depending on how stressful their job is, it can be very difficult to shift back to having feminine feelings and characteristics. Even when women think they are from Mars, they are still from Venus. They still have all the feminine characteristics within them. With a little attention to what those attributes are, they can and will come to life. Through getting in touch with her feminine feelings and characteristics and with some practice using Venusian approaches to dating, a woman will automatically become more attractive to the right men for her. STRONG AND ASSERTIVE WOMEN Strong, independent, assertive, and successful women often have difficulty finding the right man and then sustaining a relationship, primarily because the very characteristics that make them successful at work can make them unsuccessful in relationships. When a woman can actively pursue a goal in the workplace she will succeed, but when she actively pursues a man (and she may date many men), something will always be missing. And what is missing is what can emerge only when a man feels he is doing the pursuing. Although there is nothing intrinsically wrong with a woman expressing her Martian attributes, it will backfire if she doesn’t also get a chance to sometimes be feminine. Finding a balance of Martian and Venusian in her life is essential. Particularly when a woman has to be Martian at MEN LOVE A WOMAN WITH A SMILE / 273 work, it is even more important than ever to come home to a relationship that makes her feel more feminine. While dating and finding a fulfilling relationship can be more difficult for these women, all successful women have an incredible ability for self-correction. All a woman needs is the complete awareness and understanding of the problem, and then she immediately sets out to fix it. In this case nothing in her is really broken, but something is being neglected. By clearly identifying the three Venusian attributes and nurturing their development through dating, she can change the tide and begin enjoying success in both areas of her life, work and relationships. A strong and assertive woman can be very attractive, but she must learn to express her power in a feminine way. Whether a woman is more Martian or Venusian, by becoming aware of the three Venusian attributes and applying the dating strategies for each, she will achieve the same result. Not only will she begin to bring out the best in men, but she will like herself more and have a better time. Sometimes when women hear these new approaches to dating, they feel they have done everything wrong. Instead of focusing on the failures, remember that now you have the opportunity to change the patterns of dating that you may be repeating over and over. Unless you identify what didn’t work and what you can do about it, the chance of change is nil. Even if some of these ideas are challenging to the foundation of how you have always related to men, give them a chance and experience that they work. THE FIRST ATTRIBUTE: SELF-ASSURANCE The first attribute that makes a woman most attractive is self-assurance. Most women have noticed some special 274 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. women who have men wrapped around their fingers. They wonder how the special woman does it: That man will do anything she wants. These special women always exude an air of grace and trust. They are self-assured. They respect themselves and assume others will respect them. A self-assured woman trusts that others care and that they want to support her. She does not feel alone. She feels supported by friends and family and by men. In her mind, almost all men are likable until proven otherwise. When she is not respected, she doesn’t take it so personally, but moves on. She realizes that she still deserves what she needs and gracefully tries another approach to get it. If that fails, she quickly looks elsewhere for support. She doesn’t expect perfection and is open to finding new ways of getting more of what she wants. Some women are naturally self-assured. They are born with this attitude, just as some singers are born with an incredible voice. For most, this attitude needs to be developed and cultivated. It is already inside a woman; it just needs the opportunity to come out and be exercised. By becoming aware of how it looks and feels, a woman can begin to find it and give expression to this part of herself. Self-assurance is an attitude that assumes you will always get what you need and that at this moment you are in the process of getting it. It is different from confidence. Confidence assumes that you can do what you set out to do, even if you have to do it all by yourself without any help. Self-assurance assumes that others are available and want to help and you don’t have to do it all by yourself. When a woman is too confident and independent, it is sometimes a sign that she is not assured at all that others are there for her, and so she has to do it all herself. With this new awareness, MEN LOVE A WOMAN WITH A SMILE / 275 she can begin to open up to others for their support and not isolate herself. Self-assurance assumes you will always get what you need and you are now in the process of getting it. When women see another woman with a lot of self-assurance, they just assume that she feels this way because she is able to get the support of a man. While there is some truth to this, it is really the other way around. When a woman is self-assured, then the support comes her way. When a woman behaves and interacts with a man assuming that she will get the respect she deserves, that she can get the support she needs, and that she is already worthy of that support, then automatically she brings out the best in him. When a woman is self-assured, then the support comes her way. As a woman grows in self-assurance, she will not be attracted to men who cannot respond to her in the ways she deserves. It is not that men suddenly become perfect for her, or that she finds a perfect man; it is more that she is able to bring out the best in a man. Why Men Stay Interested When a man is actively interested it is because he is in the process of getting what he wants. He is in the successful pursuit of making a woman happy, and this also makes him happy. As he succeeds, he anticipates getting more in return, and this makes her even more interesting. What turns a man 276 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. on is the message that he could be the one to make a woman happy. As long as he is making progress, he is happy. When a woman is self-assured that she will get what she wants, then that is the perfect complement to the man who wants to succeed in a relationship. Not only does her attitude of self-assurance make her more attractive, but it sustains his interest in her. Most women don’t realize that it is not so much what men get now that keeps them interested, but the possibility of what they will eventually get. When a woman is self-assured she fuels a man’s confidence and his anticipation of success. It is not so much what men get now that keeps them interested but the possibility of what they will eventually get. Without this understanding of our differences, a woman mistakenly assumes that she must in some way earn a man’s affections. Instead of being self-assured that she is already worthy of what he gives, she begins to feel an urge to please him and win his love. Whenever a woman tries to win a Martian’s love, she will lose. It is for him to win her love and for her to give him the opportunity. This understanding of Martian temperament in itself frees women to be more self-assured. A woman mistakenly assumes that when she is pleasing to a man, eager to satisfy his needs first, he will then be more motivated to please her. This woman may have an air of confidence because she knows she can please him, but it is not self-assurance. Trying to please a man will never earn his lasting affections. The opposite is true. When a man succeeds in pleasing a woman, then and only then is he more motivated to please her. MEN LOVE A WOMAN WITH A SMILE / 277 Why Men Become So Charming This helps explain what makes a man on a date most charming and interested in a woman. When a woman is attracted to a man, he gets the message that he could be the one to make her happy. He seems to be making her very happy, and this brings out the best in him. If, however, she begins to feel obligated to return the favor and focuses on making him happy, much of the charm disappears. Often women complain that they go out with a man and have a great time and then the next day he becomes a complete jerk. One day he is interested and the next he is distant and uninterested in them. They complain, “He got what he wanted and was out of here.” It is no wonder that women mistrust men and feel used. These women do not understand their part of the problem. When a woman gives more than she is getting, or gives all of herself before she receives all that she wants, she is setting herself up to be disappointed. When a woman shifts from feeling self-assured to trying to satisfy a man’s wants, he may continue to see her but it is never the same. He becomes less and less interested in her. When a woman shifts from feeling self-assured to earning a man’s affection, she becomes less attractive. This does not mean a woman should not give of herself or seek to satisfy a man’s needs and wishes as well. As long as she is centered, secure in the feeling that she is getting what she wants, then it is fine for her to give what feels right to her. If he wants more and she wants to wait, only if she respects her own needs first can he begin to respect them. She will make it easier for herself and for him when she is 278 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. self-assured, so that he will respect her wishes with regard to her needs, her schedule, her preferences, and her beliefs and considerations regarding physical and emotional intimacy. In most cases, when a woman shifts to trying to earn a man’s love and attention, she doesn’t even have a clue as to how she may be preventing a man from becoming genuinely and actively interested in her. When a man pulls away, a woman commonly blames him and doesn’t realize how she can be part of the equation. When a man pulls away, a woman blames him and doesn’t realize how she can be part of the equation. Certainly a man likes it when a woman reacts as if he is everything she wants, as if just being with him makes her happy, as if she is getting everything she needs and he is perfect for her just the way he is. This kind of response is very seductive. When she responds to him as if he has fulfilled all her needs and in truth he really hasn’t, then the next day, as she begins to feel what she is not yet getting, he begins to lose interest and doesn’t even know why. What Makes a Man Listen A woman’s attitude has the power either to turn a man on or to turn him off. For example, a man will most respect and want to hear what a woman has to say when she speaks in a manner that first assumes he is interested. The very act of assuming a man will be interested makes him more interested. Even if he wasn’t that interested in the subject matter, he will become interested, because he is interested in her. It is all in her approach. MEN LOVE A WOMAN WITH A SMILE / 279 A man will most respect and want to hear what a woman has to say when she speaks in a manner that assumes he wants to hear what she has to say. If her attitude says she feels assured that he will be interested, then he will want to hear her and know her. It is this attitude of being self-assured that draws a man’s interest. A woman needs to remember that she is the jewel and he is providing the setting for her to shine. As long as he gets credit for making her shine, he is happy to be the provider of support in the relationship. This attitude that she is already worthy of attention makes her more desirable and intriguing to him. Men are interested in being successful. The opportunity to provide fulfillment to a woman is very interesting to any man. Certainly a man is interested in being fulfilled as well, but it is being successful in fulfilling a woman that makes him feel most fulfilled in a relationship. A man is always interested in what will make him successful. When a Man Is the Jewel A woman’s position is compromised when she behaves as if the man is the jewel and she would like the position of providing the setting. Automatically the romance and attraction will lessen. Certainly, a man likes feeling he is the jewel when a woman seeks to please him, but ultimately he likes much more the experience of winning her over. When a woman shares herself with self-assurance that she is the jewel, a man responds by wanting to win her over. A woman’s desire to please a man is clearly a demonstra280 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. tion of love, but at the same time a woman must know that if she denies herself to please him, it makes her less attractive. No matter how happy she makes him, if she is editing herself, holding herself back, and not expressing her true self, he will eventually lose touch with his feelings of attraction for her. What Men Love and What Is Boring A man loves it when a woman feels free to be herself in his presence. From his perspective, her difference from him makes her very attractive. Through being authentic, she can let her feminine radiance shine and he is drawn to her like a moth to the flame. He is turned on by her ease and comfort with herself and her freedom of expression. When she can be herself in his presence, that is a message to him that he doesn’t have to change himself to be with her. When a woman feels she has to become something other than her true self to be lovable, then she becomes less attractive. Not only does it restrict her true radiance, but it gives a message that he is also expected to change in order to be acceptable. THE SECOND ATTRIBUTE: RECEPTIVITY The second attribute that makes a woman most attractive is receptivity. Some woman are just able to flow through dating situations, while others get rigid and stuck. This fluidity and flexibility to flow around obstacles may be mistakenly viewed as being too accommodating, but when it comes from receptiveness, it is very different. When a woman is accommodating, she could be giving up herself or what she wants in order to please a man. This trait MEN LOVE A WOMAN WITH A SMILE / 281 is not bad, but if she does it too much she runs the risk of giving up too much of herself and then resenting her partner when he is not giving her what she wants. A receptive woman is able to receive what she gets and not resent getting less. As soon as she is expecting more and resenting getting less, she is no longer being receptive. A receptive woman is able to receive what she gets and not resent getting less. Receptivity is being able to receive whatever can be received in a circumstance. It is the ability to benefit or find something good in every situation. Even if she can’t find it, being receptive means she is open to finding it. For example, when a man doesn’t call, she is still open to the possibility that he is from Mars and he just forgot. An unreceptive woman would feel, “Well, that is just an excuse and I don’t buy it. If I am going to get involved with a man, then he’d better call me back.” When a woman is receptive and things are not exactly what she wants, she is receptive to the possibility that things will get better. She does not close up. Receptivity means being able to say yes and no at the same time. She is open to receiving what she wants, likes, or appreciates, but she can also at the same time be very closed to what she doesn’t want. For example, a woman can be very receptive to kissing a man but be closed to anything more. When a woman says no to a man’s sexual advances for more, she just needs to do it in a manner that is also receptive to his kissing her. He will continue to be attracted to her. He just needs to feel that one day more is possible. 282 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. When a Woman Wants to Wait to Have Sex Some women are closed to the process of dating because they feel under pressure to be fully sexual before they are ready. They don’t even want to date because men expect so much. Men expect it because it seems as if everyone else is getting it. On television it is everywhere. And there are many women who freely give it. As a result, other women don’t realize that there are alternatives. When a woman becomes sexual before she is ready, then she has stopped being receptive and becomes accommodating. Instead of allowing a man to please her, she tries to please him. In this way she compromises her position. If she is not open at all, a man may become frustrated as well. There is a middle ground here. Let’s look at an example. David was very attracted to Suzanne. After dating for several months they had moved into stage three, exclusivity. David was used to having sex with the women he dated and he was not monogamous. He was thirty-five and had been married before. After learning about the five stages of dating, he agreed to shift his way of dating and become more discerning about the women he dated. Then he met Suzanne. Suzanne was thirty-two and had also been married before. She was so special that David quickly decided to be exclusive. He told her how much he loved her and wanted to make love with her. She was very clear that she didn’t want to have sex right away. He then asked about kissing and being physically affectionate. She said, “I would like to do that, but I don’t want to have to be pushing you away all the time. So I would rather do nothing.” He said, “What if I promise that I will only go to first and second base?” She said that would be fine, but the deal was up if he tried to steal third. He agreed. David was very happy for a while and so was Suzanne. MEN LOVE A WOMAN WITH A SMILE / 283 She also wanted to be physically affectionate but just didn’t want to go all the way. As long as he was respectful of that she was fine. They were having a great time in their relationship and they were falling more deeply in love. David again asked her if she would make love with him. Suzanne said she was not ready. She also didn’t like his bringing it up while they were being sexual. He said, “If I don’t ask, then how will I know when you are ready?” She said, “Let’s just do this for the next month and then we’ll talk about it again.” This continued for three months and then David proposed. They were engaged for about three months and then they got married. While they were engaged, David got to third base, but they waited till their marriage night to go all the way. David said it was really hard to wait, but it sure made him respect Suzanne. Their wedding night was very special—definitely a night to remember. Now they have been married for several years and they still have a very loving and passionate sex life. Suzanne was able to maintain being receptive to David while also saying no to what she wasn’t ready for. By gracefully standing up for what felt right to her, she remained most attractive to him. She just needed to feel free to be physically affectionate without having to go any further than she wanted. When a Woman Gives Too Much When a woman gives more in the relationship, she is no longer receptive to what a man has to offer; instead, she begins to expect more from the man. This makes her very unattractive. Let’s look at another example: 284 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Deann got involved with Carlos. They were both in their mid-twenties. After a few dates, they were being physical and Carlos wanted to go all the way. Deann asked him if this meant he was going to see only her. In the heat of passion Carlos said yes. The next day everything changed. Deann suddenly had a host of expectations. Some of these were: She expected him to call her every day. She expected him to love her and no one else. She expected him to see only her. She expected him to spend more time with her. She expected him to be more interested in what she had to say. She expected him to do romantic things for her. She expected him to spend less time with his friends and more time with her. All of these expectations came up the morning after she had sex with him. The next day Carlos also changed. He began to doubt if he really wanted to be that involved. Suddenly other women were looking very fine and he felt he wasn’t ready to settle down. In their relationship, they had moved to stage four (intimacy) and skipped stages two and three, uncertainty and exclusiveness. Carlos immediately moved back into uncertainty and decided not to proceed. It was almost predictable. Carlos and Deann may have had a chance, but because they were not ready to be so intimate, Carlos immediately backed out of the relationship and Deann was hurt. Once MEN LOVE A WOMAN WITH A SMILE / 285 she had given more than she was getting, her chances of moving through the five stages with Carlos disappeared. When Expectations Are a Turnoff A man thrives when he feels that he does not have to give, but that he chooses to give. He wants to give because he cares and it makes a woman so happy, not because he owes her. Expectations are a turnoff. When a man feels he has to give because a woman has given so much to him, then it is no longer fun to give. It is like working to pay off your debts. A woman loses her sense of receptivity when she expects more than a man has been giving. It is fine to expect a man’s support if he has been giving it consistently over time, but this kind of expectation is different. It is based on past experience of what to expect, not just her assumption that he will support her because he owes her. Receptive Communication When a woman is receptive to a man it doesn’t mean that she necessarily agrees with him. As long as a woman conveys that she is not threatened by a man or what he has to say, he doesn’t care if she completely disagrees with him. As a matter of fact, men like it a lot when a woman can playfully disagree. If he is talking about the Republicans and she is a Democrat and responds by completely disagreeing with him, he doesn’t mind at all. It is all in the way she disagrees. Men love it when a woman can both disagree and express an attitude that she still likes him and trusts him to be a good guy. 286 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. To him she is saying, “I trust you can handle my having a different point of view. I accept you the way you are; you don’t have to be just like me and I still like you. I appreciate having this conversation with you; it is stimulating to have a difference of opinion.” This message is music to his ears. Receptivity Embraces the Differences Accepting a man while disagreeing with him makes him feel free to be different. Men instinctively know that in many ways they are not like women. When a woman deals with their differences in a positive manner it frees him to be different. He feels free when he does not have to be like her to be liked and loved by her. In return, he will become very interested and give her the respect she deserves, acknowledging that she is unique and different. Having a positive and open attitude about our differences causes men and women to be more attractive to each other. Men are generally very open to women’s being different. A man closes down to a woman’s different way of looking at things only when he feels unfairly attacked or blamed. When a man does not feel blamed or judged for being different, then he is much more receptive to her way of being and is happy to find a middle ground. THE THIRD ATTRIBUTE: RESPONSIVENESS The third attribute that makes a woman most attractive is responsiveness. A man loves a woman with a smile. A man loves to feel he can make a difference. A man is most interested in pursuing a woman when he gets clear messages that he can make her happy. It actually gives a man energy to anticipate being successful in making her happy. MEN LOVE A WOMAN WITH A SMILE / 287 The secret to being responsive is to be authentic. If a man does not truly delight, impress, or please a woman and she responds with artificial delight, admiration, or fulfillment, he will know she is faking it and eventually feel manipulated. He will sense that she is trying to please him by being pleased. A woman’s responsiveness is most attractive when it is authentic and not exaggerated. Certainly she is aware that her pleasure makes him happy, but she must be careful not to pretend. It is okay to hold back negative responses in the first three stages of dating. Just as a man needs to put his best foot forward to impress a woman, she needs to put forth her most positively responsive self. It is fine to share negative responses if the man is also sharing negative responses, but she still should be careful. A man judges his success in a relationship by the positive responses that he gets. It is not so much what a woman does for a man that makes him happy, but the way she responds. When she is not pleased she can simply give a zero response. The absence of a positive response will be a clear message to a man that he didn’t succeed. If a movie he takes her to is not very good, she doesn’t need to share her negative responses, but she can instead seem unresponsive and change the subject to something more positive. Each time a woman chooses to find and express her positive responses to a man’s attempts to fulfill her, then he feels encouraged to pursue her. 288 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Retelling an Adventure I was once sitting in a hot tub on a cruise when a young dating couple got in. After I asked about their journey on the island of Mykonos, she proceeded to tell me and everyone else in great detail their adventure. She said, “My boyfriend, Bill, decided we should rent mopeds, and as soon as we got out of town, mine broke down. We were stranded most of the day. He really got upset and lost it. Finally we got back and spent the rest of the day at the beach.” I watched him shrink in embarrassment as she told this story. The other women in the hot tub asked more questions, and not one of the women realized that this story had totally embarrassed her date. As more people came and went she continued to tell the same story. Well, it was no surprise to me that he quickly got out and later they were not talking to each other. He was embarrassed and steaming mad. As I listened to the story, I realized how she could have told it a little differently and he would have been proud. There was no negative intent on her part, it was just her not understanding Martian sensitivities. She could have said, “We had an incredible adventure. Mykonos is such a beautiful island. Bill decided to rent mopeds. I thought it was such a great idea. He arranged the whole thing and got a great deal. Unfortunately, when we reached the outskirts of the city my moped broke down. I thought we were stranded. I didn’t know what to do. Bill was great. He assured me that everything would be fine and proceeded to flag down every car that passed. Finally, he got us back safely and we had a lovely day at the beach. They have the most beautiful beaches and the water is so clear.” All of the above was also true and accurately expressed how she felt. It was just a matter of consciously focusing on MEN LOVE A WOMAN WITH A SMILE / 289 what he did that was positive and not on the negative aspects. Let’s look at another example of how a woman unknowingly turns off a man. Standing Outside the Movie Theater Once while entering a movie theater on a date with my wife, I overheard a conversation between a dating couple in their sixties. It was clear that it was one of their early dates. I could see him sincerely trying to please her. Although I heard only the last part of the conversation, I knew what had happened before. They had just come out of a movie that he thought for sure she would have liked, but for some reason she hated the movie. As she expressed her dislike of the movie, I watched him crumble. His whole posture wilted down. As I passed by I heard him say, “Well, what would you like to do now?” and her response was, “I would like to stand here and tell every person what an awful movie that was. I can’t believe they made that movie. It was just terrible. No one should have to see it.” Now, this woman was not trying to put her date down. She didn’t even have a clue as to how he was taking her words. He was feeling not only put down but completely flattened. If she had understood his needs at that time, then it would have been an easy choice for her to postpone sharing her frustrations over the movie. Many women don’t realize what a pleasure it is for a man to feel successful at pleasing or fulfilling a woman. It gives him such a lift. When anything on a date makes a woman happy, he will take credit. When she likes the movie, on an emotional level it is as if he had written the movie script and starred in it. When she likes the soup at the restaurant, it is 290 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. as if he had cooked it. When she compliments the movie or the soup, he feels complimented. A woman’s pleasure on a date can light up a man’s life in the same way that his consideration of her needs and feelings lights up her life. Unfortunately, there is a flip side to this dynamic. When a woman criticizes the movie, he takes it personally in various degrees. It is his movie script she is rejecting. When she talks about how bad the service is in a restaurant, he may feel as if she is complaining about him. Without even knowing it, a woman can completely derail a man’s romantic feelings. By focusing on sharing positive feelings on a date, a woman can ensure the natural development and unfolding of attraction in a relationship. When a woman says, “I had such a good time the other night. That band was great….” she should purposely leave out telling him how frustrated she was that she had to wait thirty minutes to use the rest room or how much she hated the guy who was smoking in front of her. By focusing on the positive and leaving out the negative, she may have a little less conversation, but he will stay interested. She can then share the negative goodies with her girlfriends: They will understand and be happy to hear her stories and then tell her their own. MAKING THE CHOICE TO RESPOND It is crucial that a man experience repeatedly that he can make and is making a difference in a woman’s life. Men always thrive in a relationship when they feel needed and appreciated. When a woman can respond to the little things he does, then his affection, attraction, and interest have a chance to grow. As a woman learns to respond to men with each of these MEN LOVE A WOMAN WITH A SMILE / 291 three attributes of femininity—being self-assured, receptive, and responsive—she is able to be most attractive to men. Not only will a man find her more attractive, but by consciously making the choice to express herself in this manner, she will be happier as well. In Chapter 18 we will explore the three attributes of masculinity that make a man most attractive to a woman. 18 Women Love a Man with a Plan Every man has the power to bring out the best in a woman, but only a few men realize it. If a man could see himself through a woman’s eyes, he would experience that which makes him irresistible to her. He would clearly see the attributes he already has that really turn a woman on. It is almost impossible for a man to see himself this way. He doesn’t recognize that what a woman wants most, he already has. It is easy to conclude that a man is most attractive to a woman because he has a great personality or because he is very talented, handsome, friendly, funny, witty, strong, entertaining, rich, successful, wise, or interesting. Regardless of any of these traits, what makes a man most attractive to a woman is his ability to make her feel like a woman. When a man makes a woman feel feminine, her femininity is actually awakened, switched on, or, as we commonly say, turned on. When a woman is turned on by a man’s presence, 292 WOMEN LOVE A MAN WITH A PLAN / 293 it brings out the best in her and as a result she is attracted to him. To the degree that a man makes a woman feel feminine, then to that degree she is turned on by his unique talents, traits, interests, or characteristics. If a man doesn’t turn a woman on, it doesn’t matter how funny, rich, or successful he is. What allows a man to bring out the best in a woman can be summarized in one expression: masculine presence. When a man clearly expresses this aspect of who he already is, a woman is mysteriously attracted. She is most attracted to him when he is confident, purposeful, and responsible. These three attributes make a woman feel more self-assured, receptive, and responsive to him. With an awareness of these three attributes, a man can harness his power to win a woman over and successfully progress through the five stages of dating. With this new insight, he can begin to understand why some dates work and others don’t. With an awareness of this power within, he can begin to exercise it on every date. As he gets stronger he will gain the ability to know the right partner for him and sweep her off her feet. THE FIRST ATTRIBUTE: CONFIDENCE The first attribute that makes a man most attractive is confidence. A woman can sense when a man is confident. She automatically begins to relax and feel assured that she will get what she needs. When a man does not feel confident, a woman begins to worry. Her feminine side, which wants to relax and receive, panics, and her masculine side rises up to protect her and make sure she gets what she needs. 294 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Confidence in a man makes a woman breathe deeper, relax, and open up to receive the support he has to offer. Confidence does not mean that a man has to be perfect, nor does he have to have all the answers. Confidence is a can-do attitude. He knows that no matter what happens, there is always a solution. Even if he doesn’t have the answer, he is confident that he can, and will, find one. When a man has a can-do attitude, even if he doesn’t have all the answers, a woman can breathe deeper, relax, and open up. With confidence, a man gains the objectivity to stand back and look for what can be done. At distressing times, he remains cool, calm, and collected. When a man gets angry and says mean things, he is definitely not coming from his confidence. Instead, he is feeling threatened and threatens back. A confident man contains his feelings until he has figured out what to do. He may not know the outcome, but he senses that no matter what happens, he can always find the next step to improve a situation. He feels that no matter how bad things get, he can eventually figure out what can be done, or find someone who knows what can be done, and then do it. A confident attitude reassures a woman that everything will be all right. A Man with a Plan When a man is confident he is able to come up with a plan. Women love a man with a plan. A woman doesn’t like it when a man is too dependent on her for direction. Although women give men a lot of directions and suggestions, they wish they WOMEN LOVE A MAN WITH A PLAN / 295 didn’t have to. A woman is happy to do some of the planning, but she wants the man to lead the way confidently. A woman enjoys a date most when a man has a plan and he feels confident about it. He knows what time it is, where he is, where he is going, how long it is going to take, what he will do when they get there, and that he has the money he needs. He is confident that all will go well and as planned. If things don’t work out as planned, he has a backup plan. A confident man’s backup plan is that he will assess the situation and make the best of it. He will forge his way into unknown territory and have an adventure. He will do his best and things will turn out fine. When Men Lose Confidence Confidence is natural to men, but they can easily lose it when they don’t understand something. A man loses confidence on a date because he doesn’t understand women. When a woman seems upset by something, he may not understand what to do. Instead of taking charge and finding a solution, he too quickly surrenders to asking her what she would like. Then she feels she has to come up with the plan. It is fine for a woman to help with the plan, but she must not feel that she is fully responsible. It is so easy for a man to think, “Well, I really don’t care what happens. As long as she is happy I will be fine. I’ll just do what she says.” He doesn’t realize that what makes her happiest is not having to figure out what makes her happy. Before asking her what to do, he needs first to consider various options and ask her what she thinks and then be open to what she suggests. When he thinks of options, she doesn’t have to feel the whole responsibility of what their plan is. Even if he doesn’t know what to do and can’t even 296 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. come up with other options, just the act of trying to come up with something before asking her will make a big difference. After thinking for a while he could even say, “I’ve been thinking about what to do and I really don’t know. What do you think?” After listening to her, instead of just saying okay, he should think about what she suggests to see if he could improve it and then conclude, “Okay, let’s do this…” Like the quarterback on a football team or the director at a camp, he then sets the game plan. This explains why women love quarterbacks and camp directors. Applying Mars/Venus Dating Skills When a woman is disappointed or displeased with a man, or if some element of his plan unravels, he can easily become overly defensive. When she doesn’t like his plan, he feels that she doesn’t like him. When he is confident that he has what it takes to make a woman happy, then he doesn’t get defensive or upset with her when she is disappointed. Instead he applies his Mars/Venus dating skills and then changes his plan. With an understanding of women he can learn to listen without trying to solve the problem. As he listens without trying to help her see the situation differently, she gets a chance to feel that he cares about her feelings and is trying to be understanding. When he is sincerely interested, understanding, and sympathetic, then no matter what the disappointment, she will feel better and he will become more attractive to her. By being a sympathetic listener, a man can transform even a disappointing date into an intimate and rewarding experience for the woman. WOMEN LOVE A MAN WITH A PLAN / 297 By understanding the way women think and feel, a man has a huge advantage over most men out there dating. Most men will ruin a date by trying to talk a woman out of being upset or disappointed. They don’t realize the power of listening to win a woman over. They don’t realize the importance of little things and not necessarily big things to impress her most. The more a man learns about women, the more confident he will feel on a date. This confidence makes him very attractive. Dates become disasters not because of what happens but because of how the man handles a woman’s feelings in reaction to disappointments. A man can get too attached to his plan and forget that the real gift he gives a woman is his sincere interest in making her happy. When circumstances don’t do it, then he can really score big by being caring, understanding, and respectful of her reaction to what has happened. THE SECOND ATTRIBUTE: PURPOSEFULNESS A man with a purpose is most attractive to a woman. When he has a plan, a dream, a direction, a vision, an interest, or a concern, he is very attractive. It doesn’t matter how great or grand the plan or purpose is. He is attractive to the degree that he feels passionate about achieving his purpose. He then becomes even more attractive when he focuses his purposefulness on her. When he becomes focused on making her happy, then she is swept off her feet. This does not mean that he gives up his other goals and wants only to make her happy. That is a turnoff. A woman knows that she cannot fulfill all his needs. She doesn’t want him to stop his life for her. That would put too much pressure on her and their relationship. 298 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. A woman does not want a man to give up his goals in life in order to make her happy. A man needs to have a sense of purpose separate from his relationship. He needs to have a direction first, and then he is ready to create a relationship to support him in making his dreams come true. He feels a need for a woman to share the rewards and benefits of achieving his goal. The opportunity to share his success with a woman gives meaning to his life. As long as a man has a goal and has not given up, he has a future. Women love a man with a future. When a man is passionate about his work, his interests, his goals, and his future, he is very attractive. When he is self-directed and self-motivated, a woman feels very relaxed and comfortable with him. Rather than feeling she needs to take care of him, she feels he has the energy and motivation to take care of her sometimes, and for her this is good. A Man’s Purpose in a Relationship In a relationship a man’s purpose is to provide support for the woman and receive her love in return. As long as he stays “on purpose” a relationship has a chance to grow. When he starts to focus only on what he is getting in return, he gets “off purpose” and the woman begins to close down. Romantic rituals help a man to stay on purpose. In most of the traditional romantic rituals, the man provides and the woman graciously receives. These rituals are important because they give him the repeated experience that he can succeed in his purpose very easily. All he has to do is plan a date, make a few calls, spend a little money, and open doors, and he is suddenly a great guy. She appreciates him and he feels good. WOMEN LOVE A MAN WITH A PLAN / 299 When a woman graciously receives his support without feeling obligated to give in return, it uplifts her as well. Romantic rituals are there to make her feel special and remind her to receive and not give so much. In this process, he gets the opportunity once again to taste the nectar of being selfless and giving unconditionally. Romantic rituals are there to make a woman feel special and remind her to receive and not give so much. When men are stressed, they can forget their purpose. They can work so hard that they forget that they are doing it to provide for the people they love and care about. They start caring more about work than the opportunity to be in a caring relationship. By taking time to be romantic, a man gets an opportunity to experience and remember why he is doing it all. When he feels a woman’s love, he remembers, “Oh, this is why I do it.” Her receptivity to his support allows him to feel more committed to his purpose. For a man to stay on purpose in his relationships, he needs to remember why he is having a relationship anyway. The purpose of having relationships has changed. We no longer need each other to survive. Relationships that are based on survival do not survive anymore. Both men and women want something more than the security of a partner working for the good of the family. We may want that as well, but today we want even more. We want emotional fulfillment. We want romance. We want intimacy. And we want to find a deep and lasting love. Relationships that are based on survival do not survive anymore. 300 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Romantic rituals remind men that to receive the love they want, they have to continue doing little things for a woman. A man should not expect it just to happen. He doesn’t expect his business to flourish without hard work, nor should he expect romance to be different. By remembering that his purpose is greater than the old way of having relationships, he is then motivated to learn more and find new ways of relating. THE THIRD ATTRIBUTE: RESPONSIBILITY When a man does what he says he will do, he automatically expresses a sense of responsibility; he radiates a sense of confidence that he will do what he sets out to do. It doesn’t even matter if a woman has met him before or has experienced his being responsible. She will assume him to be confident and purposeful. She will be drawn to him like a bee to honey. When a woman is attracted to a successful or influential man, what she is really attracted to is the responsible side of him that made him successful. The long hours required and the extra push to make something happen cause him to emanate a sense of responsibility. Even if he is not responsible in all areas of his life, his ability to be passionately purposeful and responsible to what is most important to him will always show. When a man is responsible, it says he cares, and that is what women are most hungry for. When a woman dates a man, she needs to feel not that he is just wanting to take from her, but that he wants to find a meaningful relationship. The more he cares, the more she can trust him. One way a man can express this caring in dating is by taking care of the little things. Each time he does, it reassures her that with him she does not have to be “on” all the time. His sense of responsibility allows her to relax. WOMEN LOVE A MAN WITH A PLAN / 301 Why a Man Needs to Be “On” Certainly men shouldn’t have to be “on” all the time either. But when a man is dating a woman, particularly in the first three stages, he needs to be “on,” just as he does when he goes to work. That is what makes a person a professional. A professional man is someone who competently does his job whether he feels like it or not. He does it regardless of his mood. He is reliable and responsible. On a date, a man is there for a woman regardless of how he feels. When he needs downtime, he should do that at home by himself or with his friends. In the first three stages of dating, a man can get his partner’s love when he is “on,” and when he is feeling down, he should be on his own. There is no greater way to kill romance than for a man to tell a woman all his problems. In an instant, she will start feeling responsible for him and start feeling maternal. Certainly in the fourth stage of dating (intimacy), he can let down his sense of being responsible and share more of his vulnerable side, but definitely not until the couple has many months of experiencing clearly that he can be responsible for himself and for her. Before sharing his vulnerable side, a man should clearly demonstrate that he can be responsible for himself and for her. This may start to sound unfair, as if the man is supposed to be “on” and the woman doesn’t have to be. The truth is, men love it when a woman lets go of being so responsible, because then her receptive and responsive feminine side can be turned on. 302 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. Jason’s Objections At first Jason objected to this idea. He said, “Wait a minute, I like a woman to be responsible too. I don’t want to do everything.” Jason had not yet experienced the pleasure of being successful on a date. He grew up in a family with lots of girls and without a father. He had experienced being taken care of by women all his life. He had never seen or tasted the satisfaction and empowerment that occurs when a man is successful in being responsible for himself. He also didn’t have the confidence that he could make a woman happy, because his father had not been able to make his mother happy. His mother and sisters were not responsive or receptive to his plans but instead were busy directing him, improving him, and sometimes being critical of him when he was like his father. He was just being a boy, but he didn’t get the support that would allow him to feel good about himself. As a result, later in life, he was happy not to risk failing again and to let the woman be responsible. He felt much more comfortable letting the woman be the responsible one. Jason was very playful, funny, and entertaining, but at forty-seven he was still unable to make a commitment to get married. By consciously choosing to be more responsible, Jason eventually learned to like being responsible and having the power to make a woman happy. Within six months, he was able to find the woman of his dreams and get married. When a Man Can Relax In stage four, as couples become more intimate, it is important that sometimes the man relax and the woman take over, but this should be the exception and not the rule. When the woman is feeling down, the man needs to have the WOMEN LOVE A MAN WITH A PLAN / 303 strength to pull himself up and be there for her. If he can’t be there for her, then he should at least not expect her to be there for him. He needs to take the time he needs to pull himself up and then come back and be there for her. When a Man Takes Charge A woman loves it when a man takes charge to follow through and do something without putting it back in her lap. This is very important to her because most women already have a tendency to be overly responsible. The more complex and stressful their lives become, the more overwhelmed and exhausted they become. A woman begins to feel responsible for doing everything for everyone. Her way of getting relief is to share these feelings with someone she loves. If she can share, something happens inside her and she doesn’t feel so responsible. It is as if she sees all possible problems and, unless she tells someone, she feels it is all up to her. By sharing, a woman is able to release the burden of feeling solely responsible. When she can share those feelings with a friend who is also responsible and he can stay relaxed and present, she begins to relax and come back to the present moment. When a man can hear a woman’s feelings without minimizing them or trying to fix them, she can let go of feeling so responsible and feel good again. Even though he is not taking on her problems, the more responsible he is, the more it has the effect of relaxing and nurturing her. When she feels that she is being heard, then she knows that if he can do anything to be of assistance he will do what 304 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. he can. Most important, she has been able to talk about it. For her, that is the most important part of a man’s support. DATING CAN BE FUN A man scores big when he does little things for a woman with a caring, understanding, and respectful attitude. By putting these new Mars/Venus dating techniques into practice, a man immediately begins building the strength to be confident, purposeful, and responsible. These qualities not only make him most attractive to a woman but will bring out the best in her. Even if he hasn’t yet found his soul mate, the whole process of dating will be easier, fun, and uplifting. 19 Why Some Women Remain Single Many women remain single even when they want to get married. They wonder, “Why am I still single? Why can’t I find a man who will commit?” This frustration has nothing to do with looks, personality, level of success, or the availability of men. It does involve their style of approach. These women mistakenly approach their relationships with men the way they want men to approach them. They are repelled by the thought of a needy man, so they are very careful to not need a man. When asked if they need a man, they are proud to acknowledge that they don’t. In some cases it is as if they are disgusted to say the word “need” out loud. These are some of their responses: 305 306 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. HOW SINGLE WOMEN RESPOND TO THE QUESTION “DO YOU NEED A MAN?” “No, I don’t need a man. But I would like a man in my life.” “No, I don’t need a man. But I want a man in my life.” “No, I don’t need a man. I can take care of myself. I just want to be with a man because I choose to, not because I need him.” “No, I don’t need a man. I don’t need another father.” “No, I am not desperate. I just want to have a loving relationship.” “No, I have been there and done that. I just want a partner to share with.” “No, what do I need a man for? I can completely support myself. I just want a companion.” “No, I don’t need a man. I just want romance and intimacy.” “No, I am happy now. I just want someone to go to weddings, parties, and the movies with.” “No, not really. I just don’t want to be lonely anymore.” Although these responses seem very reasonable and positive, they reflect an attitude that clearly doesn’t attract men, or at least doesn’t attract men who will become motivated to make a commitment. These women are surprised to hear WHY SOME WOMEN REMAIN SINGLE / 307 that their self-reliant attitude does not make them attractive. They have spent years becoming self-sufficient, believing this would make them more attractive, and then suddenly they are being told to start needing men again. When they first hear that men need to feel needed and men are most attracted to a woman who needs what he has to offer, they become confused. To clarify this confusion and put it all together, a woman needs to understand within herself why she may need a man and then learn how to express this vulnerability in a healthy way. WHY A WOMAN NEEDS A MAN Modern women have become so responsible for themselves that it is no longer obvious why they need a man. In the old days, it was clear that a woman needed a man’s protection and physical support. A woman felt comfortable declaring to herself, her friends, and the world that she needed a man. Today, she can take care of herself. She feels awkward needing a man because she doesn’t need him for the same things. To pave the way to get married, a woman needs to first determine what she needs a man for. The more self-sufficient a woman becomes, the more she hungers for the nurturing support of a man’s romantic affections, friendship, and companionship. Women today experience a deep longing to feel the intimate passion that only good communication and romance can provide. Instead of needing a man primarily for survival and security, a woman needs a man for emotional comfort and nurturing. 308 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. The more a woman does not need a man in the traditional ways, the more she needs his romantic attention and affection. Even when a woman chooses primarily to be a mother and is dependent on a man for physical support, she still needs a man’s romantic affection. The whole thinking of women in the last thirty years has changed dramatically. Romance is at a premium. WHAT A WOMAN NEEDS When a man opens the car door for a woman, he is not doing it because she can’t. He knows she is quite capable of opening the door herself. He does it to show her he cares. He does it to say, “I understand how much you give, and tonight let me give to you.” He does it to say, “You are special. Let me show you how special you are to me.” When she gets this message again and again on a date, she begins to relax and glow. She feels happier and more fulfilled. Why does she feel so fulfilled? Because a deep hunger or need is being met. It feels good, it feels nurturing, because it is. It is exactly what she needs and he is happy to do it. After a long day at home or at work, taking care of the needs of others, a woman has many needs. This is a list of what modern women need. A WOMAN’S NEEDS She needs the attention of someone who cares about her. She needs the help of someone who wants to take care of her needs. WHY SOME WOMEN REMAIN SINGLE / 309 She needs time when she is not considering what everyone else wants but when someone is considering her wishes. She needs someone who understands what she likes and makes a plan so that she doesn’t even have to think. She needs someone to anticipate her needs, wants, and wishes and to offer to help without her having to ask. She needs someone to notice her, love her, and adore her. She needs someone to miss her and desire her. She needs to love freely and trust that she will be loved in return. She needs someone who cares about her well-being to understand what she is going through and recognize the validity of her feelings. She needs someone she can confide in who is trustworthy and will not turn on her or break her confidence by revealing her secrets. She needs someone who regards her as special. She needs someone to help her in her life so she doesn’t feel she is doing it all by herself. She needs someone to feel passionate intimacy with. She not only needs these things but needs to have them fulfilled by someone with whom she feels a natural chemistry on 310 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. all levels: physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual. While these needs are not requirements for her survival, like eating, drinking, breathing, and shelter, they are required to help her feel a higher degree of emotional fulfillment. When the lower needs for survival are met, then the higher needs for love and intimacy become more important. For example, if you’re really hungry, then getting fed is all you’re concerned about. Once you have plenty of food, your other needs become important as well. When a woman can provide for herself she begins to strongly feel her higher needs to find fulfillment. When the lower needs for survival are met, then the higher needs for love and intimacy become more important. To experience increasing fulfillment, a woman does not have to have all of her needs met at once. The whole process of dating is a gradual process of satisfying her needs a little more at a time. To be satisfied, she just needs to feel hope that one day her emotional needs will be met. In a similar manner, a man doesn’t have to have all his sexual needs met right away; he just needs the hope that they are moving in that direction. When a man moves into a woman’s world and expresses his support, she appreciates his willingness to help as much as the help itself. On an emotional level, she suddenly feels she is not as alone in the world. When a man does something concrete and tangible for a woman, not only does the woman feel supported, but the man gets to feel successful. THE WISDOM OF DATING RITUALS The wisdom of dating rituals is to define the roles of man as giver and woman as receiver. Dating rituals are designed to WHY SOME WOMEN REMAIN SINGLE / 311 assist a woman in relaxing and letting a man take care of her needs. They reinforce this most important pattern: the man doing things to fulfill the woman’s needs and the woman graciously receiving. The result is that a man becomes more confident, purposeful, and responsible, while a woman becomes more self-assured, receptive, and responsive. Dating rituals assist us in bringing out the best in our partners on a date, which in turn brings out the best in ourselves as well. Without understanding this wisdom, some men and women feel uncomfortable with dating rituals. They feel that they are demeaning to women and imply that women are helpless. They are concerned that by encouraging these rituals they are reinforcing the incorrect notion that women are helpless. Nothing could be further from the truth. WHY MEN GIVE When a man opens the door for a woman, it does not mean that she is so weak that she can’t do it. Instead, it means that she is special and he wants to make her evening as comfortable as possible. When a special guest visits your home, you graciously open the door and roll out the red carpet. This does not imply in any way that the guest is helpless and incompetent. When a man pays for a woman’s meal, it does not mean that he makes more than she makes, or that she can’t afford to pay for it. Instead, it means that it is his pleasure to provide for her. She gives to so many people all day long, so he wants to give to her that evening. It is his pleasure to give. If they are in an exclusive relationship, it does not mean that he pays all the time. But when he takes her on a special date, he pays. It is nice for her to offer to pay sometimes but wise for him not to accept the offer most of the time. 312 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. People who feel that romantic rituals reinforce the role of women as helpless, needy, and dependent on men do not understand the true spirit of a man’s providing something for a woman. They mistakenly conclude that if a woman receives a man’s support, she is then obligated to provide him with sexual favors. This mistaken conclusion is arrived at when a woman doesn’t readily understand that by receiving a man’s gift, she has already given him a gift. A man’s gift is to be responsible for a woman’s fulfillment, while a woman’s gift is to be responsive and receptive to his gift. To understand these dynamics, it is very important to understand how women and men experience emotional fulfillment in different ways. What makes women feel good is not always the same as what makes men feel good. We can most dramatically discover what makes us feel good by exploring what make us feel bad or unfulfilled. By exploring the different causes of depression in men and women, we can clearly see how different our needs are. THE DIFFERENT CAUSES OF DEPRESSION The major cause of depression in women is feeling isolated. When women are most unhappy, it is when they feel that they have to do it all and there is no one there for them. This sense of having to be completely responsible for themselves and others becomes a source of depression. The major cause of depression in women is feeling isolated. WHY SOME WOMEN REMAIN SINGLE / 313 Ironically, for men it is the opposite. When a man feels he is responsible for himself, then he feels good about himself. When he feels he can provide for another, he feels even better about himself. The more others need him, the better he feels. Men like to feel they are being helpful and of service. In a sense, men like to be used. As long as a man feels fairly rewarded, he is most fulfilled when he is being used. When a man is responsible and giving and is appreciated and rewarded, he is happiest. Women, on the other hand, become depressed when they are used too much. As long as a man feels fairly rewarded, he likes being used. The major cause of depression in men is feeling not needed. A man out of work or with nothing to do becomes increasingly depressed. A man becomes depressed when he experiences that what he has to offer is not needed. This is why appreciation is so important to men. When a man feels needed, then his confidence and sense of purpose increase. Automatically he feels more responsible. When a man feels needed, it can bring out the best in him. A woman doesn’t instinctively understand how important this is to a man. Certainly a woman wants to feel appreciated, but what she doesn’t understand is that men don’t feel needed unless they are appreciated for what they do. Without appreciation, a man loses touch with his purposefulness. When a man doesn’t feel that he can successfully provide for himself or another, he will become depressed. With insight into the source of a man’s depression, it is easier to understand why a man needs a woman. Here is a list of some of a man’s needs. 314 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. A MAN’S NEEDS He needs someone who notices his efforts and appreciates what he provides. He needs someone to share what he has accomplished. He needs someone to give him the opportunity to fulfill her needs. He needs someone to accept him just the way he is. He needs someone to bring him out of himself. He needs someone to trust him and depend on him for what he can provide. He needs someone to inspire him to be the best he can be. He needs someone who likes him very much. He needs someone who is pleased with him and responsive to him. He needs someone who is receptive to his plans and suggestions. He needs someone who admires him for what he has done or tried to do. He needs someone who will forgive his mistakes. He needs someone who appreciates and acknowledges his best qualities, like patience, strength, generosity, kindness, dedication, loyalty, assertiveness, compassion, courage, wisdom, humor, and playfulness. WHY SOME WOMEN REMAIN SINGLE / 315 In simple terms, a man needs a job and a woman needs someone to hire. We have different needs but we perfectly complement each other. We are a perfect fit. This difference gives us insight into what is most important for men and women and reveals why romantic rituals are so important. Romantic rituals allow men to experience being needed, while they give women the opportunity to let go of feeling so responsible to give. WHEN WOMEN GIVE TOO MUCH When a woman gives of herself, even if she is appreciated and rewarded fairly, she will not get what she primarily needs. There are many successful women who are taking medication or in counseling for depression. The source of their depression is not that they don’t feel needed, but that they don’t get what they need. There is nothing wrong with women who give a lot. Giving is an expression of love, and it is always good. The problem comes up when women cannot get back the support they need and deserve. When women give more than they are getting, they become increasingly unfulfilled. WHEN WOMEN ARE TOO RESPONSIBLE When women are too responsible, they are also less attractive to men. In the old days, a woman was in many ways helpless to provide for herself. She clearly needed a man. This helplessness actually made her very attractive to men, and gave a man the confidence to pursue her and the sense of purpose and responsibility to provide for her and be supportive. But times have changed and women are not helpless. They 316 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. do not need men the way they used to. With more advanced education and job opportunities, women are more responsible for themselves. While this is good, it creates new problems. Sometimes the more successful and responsible a woman is, the less inviting to a man she may become. The more successful a woman is, the less inviting to a man she may become. This doesn’t have to be the case. By recognizing that she can still need a man in her life without having to be helpless, she can be successful in attracting the right man for her. For a woman to feel good about herself and also attract a man, it is not enough to just need a man; she must become adept in feeling and expressing her needs. HOW TO NEED A MAN WITHOUT BEING NEEDY Savvy women have realized that being needy is definitely a turnoff. Unfortunately, many times they throw out the baby with the bathwater. To avoid feeling or appearing needy or desperate in any way, these women deny or rationalize away any feelings of needing a man. In their minds, they can want a man, they can like to have a relationship, they can choose to be with a man, but it is not acceptable to need a man. By taking a moment to see herself through the eyes of a man, a woman can begin to understand that there is another option. A woman can still need a man and not be needy or desperate. From a man’s point of view, there is a world of difference between a needy woman and a woman who needs him. WHY SOME WOMEN REMAIN SINGLE / 317 When a woman is needy, she is not just feeling her need; instead, she feels that she needs more than a man is offering. As a result, she gets upset with him or she reacts in a manner that indicates she will be upset with him. When she signals that she needs more instead of appreciating his contribution, he gets the message that it is not enough. It is not her needing more that turns him off. It is her lack of appreciation for what he is offering that makes her “needy.” Needing more is not a turnoff, but not appreciating is. To need a man does not mean to need more from him. By focusing on appreciating what a man offers, a woman can avoid being needy. By cultivating the attitudes of self-assurance, receptiveness, and responsiveness, a woman can need more and yet appreciate what a man has to offer. A woman does not have to be helpless to ask a man for help, nor does she have to be hopeless to need his support. She can need more and graciously receive whatever he gives. It is always flattering to a man when he feels needed. From a man’s perspective, a woman is most attractive when she is aware of her needs and she feels self-assured that her needs will be fulfilled. Just as a man is most attractive when he is confident that he will achieve his goal, a woman is most attractive when she is assured that she will get the support she needs. With this attitude of self-assurance, a woman does not have to deny her need for a man just because he has not yet appeared in her life. Her self-assurance that she can and will get what she needs makes her most attractive and prevents her from feeling needy or desperate. When a woman cultivates the three attributes of femininity—self-assurance, recep318 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. tiveness, and responsiveness—she gains the ability to need a man without becoming needy. GIVING MEN THE RIGHT MESSAGE By being self-assured instead of demanding more from a man, a woman gives the message that she trusts that she will eventually get her needs met. This openness makes a man much more interested. When a woman is receptive to what he is offering, a man gets the message that he may be accepted and not rejected. By being responsive to his attempts to please her, a woman allows a man to feel appreciated. He gets the message that he could be even more successful. These three attributes ensure that she is not giving the wrong message about her needs. When a woman expresses the best of her feminine side by being self-assured, receptive, and responsive, it brings out the best of a man’s masculine side. The more a man senses that a woman needs what he has to offer, the more interested he becomes. Quite automatically he feels more confident, purposeful, and responsible. He is confident because her self-assurance sends a message that there is a job opening. He is purposeful because her receptive smile sends the message that he could get the job to make her happy. She has a need and he has the solution. Her responsiveness encourages him to feel he could be successful in fulfilling her needs. This encouragement makes him feel more responsible to fulfill her needs. HOW WOMEN SABOTAGE THE DATING PROCESS When a woman denies feeling her needs for a man, she sabotages the dating process. Her sincere attempts to find a lastWHY SOME WOMEN REMAIN SINGLE / 319 ing and loving relationship end each time in disappointment. By making this shift and feeling her needs for a man in a healthy way, she opens a door for the right man to walk in. By feeling her needs in a healthy way, she is able to appreciate and to accept men much more. Needing a man can be compared to any other healthy need. For example, if you are a little hungry then you might like to eat, but it is not a very big deal. When you are more hungry, you want to eat and it tastes better. If you haven’t eaten in five or six hours and you feel a healthy hunger, it is because you need to eat. When you need to eat, the food tastes so very delicious and satisfying. Likewise, when a woman feels her healthy need for a man, he can sense that she will be responsive, receptive, and self-assured. This makes her best qualities shine. If he is the right man for her, or at least closer to the right guy, then he will be attracted to her. By clearly feeling her needs for a man, she becomes a magnet capable of attracting the right man for her. In Chapter 20, we will explore where she will find him. 20 Where to Find Your Soul Mate People who are happily married often say they met their soul mate when they weren’t really looking. Their paths crossed as if by accident, when and where they least expected it. They just “happened” to meet at a party, on a trip, on a walk, at a church class, at a convention, or at work. They associate their success in finding a mate with chance, fate, divine intervention, or just luck. They feel lucky because they weren’t even looking. They feel it was by chance because they met their partners in a place where they wouldn’t have expected to find them. And they felt it was fate or divine intervention because their meeting was accidental, with no conscious intention. This doesn’t mean you have to wait for your lucky day or for an accident to occur in order to meet your mate. There are very clear reasons why these couples found their mates. Since they were not aware of those reasons, they assume it 320 WHERE TO FIND YOUR SOUL MATE / 321 was just fate, luck, or chance. But definite conditions had been satisfied before they could meet and recognize their perfect partners. By understanding those conditions and deliberately creating them, you can speed up the process of finding your partner. GOD HELPS THOSE WHO HELP THEMSELVES People attribute finding their soul mates solely to chance, fate, luck, magic, good fortune, or God’s grace because they don’t realize how it is actually done. Certainly everything really great is done with God’s help, but God helps those who help themselves. Every day, without knowing what they are doing, individuals happen to do the right thing to find a soul mate. They put themselves in the right place at the right time, and then it can miraculously happen. Even when the fruit is ripe, we still need to find it and pick it. In a similar way, to find our soul mates we need to be ready, but we also need to be in the right place. Whether intentionally or unintentionally, these people put themselves in environments that allowed them to meet a potential partner with whom they felt immediate chemistry. Whether intentionally or unintentionally, we put ourselves in the right place to meet a potential partner with whom we can feel immediate chemistry. By understanding the different elements that create chemistry, we can discover the best places to meet a potential soul mate. There are certain places where you will definitely meet people who will be attracted to you and vice versa. Most people just don’t realize what makes for healthy chemistry. 322 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. THE FIRST ELEMENT OF CHEMISTRY: DIFFERENT INTERESTS By studying the lives of soul mates, you can begin to see that there are certain elements that are almost always present. When the chemistry of healthy attraction is experienced, certain predictable conditions are being met. The first and most important element is different interests. Happily married soul mates always have different interests. Certainly they have many shared interests, but quite often they have many more different interests. Generally, it is only after a few years of living together that they discover their many different interests. They don’t realize it in the beginning. Soul mates have many shared interests, but quite often they have many more different interests. When couples fall in love, they don’t go around saying, “I met the most incredible person. She is so different from me.” Instead they tend to say the opposite. They say, “Oh, I met this incredible person; we have so many things in common.” They say this because they haven’t yet discovered how different their interests are. Without this understanding, single people can easily miss opportunities to meet their soul mate. The insight that different interests create chemistry explains why it is sometimes so hard to find a soul mate. Our soul mate will have different interests and will work and spend time in places we rarely visit. The only way we can meet someone with different interests is by accident. By recognizing this truth and actively seeking out situations where people have different interests, we dramatically increase our chances of experiencing more chemistry and meeting the right person. Let’s explore a few examples. WHERE TO FIND YOUR SOUL MATE / 323 Kim’s Chance Meeting Kim is a single mother who works in a restaurant. She said, “I had to reschedule my regular weekly massage. While I was waiting in the reception room at the health center, I met my future husband, Peter. It was just by chance that I met him. Peter is a contractor and he was there to bid on a job. It really is amazing that we love each other so much. We are so different. He loves to create change and build things, while I like antiques and stability. He is a Republican and I am a Democrat. He likes to stay home at night and I like to eat out….” Their interests were so different that Kim would never have found Peter if they hadn’t met by accident in the reception room. Because Peter stayed home at night, he would have missed meeting Kim, who worked nights at a restaurant. With the Help of Friends Mark is a policeman. He said, “I met my wife, Vicky, through my friend Chuck. They first went together for three years. Chuck used to talk about her all the time. When they split up, I gave her a call and we started going out. I am grateful to Chuck for introducing us and we are still great friends. “If it hadn’t been for Chuck, I don’t think we would have ever met. I like sports and she doesn’t. The only reason I met her is that Chuck invited me to his birthday party. We met playing cards. “Even then there were a few sparks flying between Vicky and me. But she wasn’t available. I remember thinking Chuck was a very lucky guy. Now I feel like I am the lucky guy. Vicky and I have a wonderful marriage and three great kids. Chuck married someone else.” When a man is like Mark, who doesn’t like parties, his 324 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. chances of meeting his soul mate go up when he starts going to more birthday parties, dances, and weddings. Likewise, when a woman is like Vicky, who doen’t like sports, her chances of meeting her soul mate go up when she goes to sporting events, activities, and celebrations. Daphne’s Lucky Project Daphne, an interior decorator, said, “I met my husband, Carl, at work on a remodeling project. My client wanted a hot tub. Someone gave me his number to consult with. Well, Carl knew just what I needed. I knew by the way he handled the project that this was the kind of man I could rely on. He was the man to do the job and he was also the man for me. We immediately liked each other. It was just by luck that we met; I would never have gone shopping for a hot tub for myself and he lived in another county.” If not for her client’s desire for a hot tub, Daphne would never have found her husband. She was not even interested in hot tubs. Carl was a real outdoorsy, rugged kind of guy. He rarely went shopping and certainly was not into interior design. Their paths would never have crossed. Without Daphne’s lucky project, the only way Carl could have found Daphne would have been to spend more time at shopping malls. By taking a little time to check out interior design stores, his chances of meeting Daphne would have increased. He might have actually met her or someone who would eventually lead him to her or her to him. Daphne might have met Carl by moving out of her comfort zone and going camping, joining a nature club, or going on some group adventure like river rafting or a skiing trip. She could easily have met him or someone who would eventually have led him to her or her to him. WHERE TO FIND YOUR SOUL MATE / 325 Different Interests Create Chemistry Single people mistakenly assume that their soul mate will share their interests. As a result, they look for partners with similar interests. They don’t realize that there are hundreds, even thousands, of places to find their soul mate. Certainly, it is possible to find a soul mate in a place where we share an interest, but it is also just as possible to find a soul mate in a place where people are interested in things that we are not. To find your soul mate, go to places where the people have interests different from yours. If you have been to the places that appeal to you and you have not found your soul mate, try looking in the places where people have interests different from yours. Even if you don’t immediately find your soul mate, you will at least begin to experience more chemistry with the opposite sex. You will become more desirable, and this will motivate you to keep looking. Try New Things Whenever you go somewhere new, a new part of you has a chance to come out. That is one of the reasons we are attracted to people with different interests. We are stimulated in their presence. They are so different from us that something new inside us gets stimulated. When someone is the same as you, you are not necessarily stimulated. If we just wanted to be with ourselves, we wouldn’t need a partner at all. Trying new things actually gives you more energy and makes you more attractive. 326 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. To find your soul mate, make sure you go to places where the people are definitely interested in things that you are not interested in at all. If you don’t like to dance, then take dancing lessons, go out dancing, or go to a dance competition. If you don’t like to eat out, then start eating out more. If you aren’t very religious, start going to church. Almost always in a marriage, one partner likes the evening and the other likes the morning. To find your partner, change your schedule occasionally. If you like to go to bed early, then start going places at night. If you like to sleep late, then start getting up and taking brisk morning walks. You will meet so many more people. One of them may be your soul mate, or one of them may introduce you to your soul mate. If you don’t like sports, then start going to local games and sporting activities. If you don’t like going to school, then take a few classes at night. If you don’t like to read, start hanging out at a bookstore or library. If you normally drive places, then walk more if possible. If you bring your lunch to work, try eating out occasionally. If you eat out a lot, try shopping at the supermarket. If you eat a lot of junk food, try shopping at a health-food store or green market. If you don’t like to read very much, start hanging out at a bookstore or library. When you expand your territory in this way, your chances of meeting your soul mate go up dramatically. With this new insight, finding a partner who shares chemistry with you becomes a much easier task. WHERE TO FIND YOUR SOUL MATE / 327 THE SECOND ELEMENT OF CHEMISTRY: COMPLEMENTARY NEEDS The second element is complementary needs. Soul mates basically have something that their partners need. When a man has what a woman needs, then she feels chemistry. For men, it is the other way around. When a woman needs what a man has to offer, he feels chemistry. This mutual dependence creates healthy emotional chemistry. Emotional chemistry frees us from being limited by our unrealistic pictures of what our ideal partner will look like or be like. When a man is able to experience the thrill of feeling needed by a woman, he is no longer caught in pictures and expectations of what his ideal partner should look like. He is released from judging her physical appearance when he enjoys the pleasure of making little romantic gestures and feeling her responses. When a woman experiences a man treating her in a special way, she is free from fixating on how her ideal partner should look. By experiencing the chemistry that results from being receptive to a man’s approach, she is free to follow her heart and not get caught up in unrealistic expectations of perfection. Places Where a Woman Needs a Man With this insight, a woman can wisely look for her soul mate in places where she would be most receptive and responsive to what a man has to offer. If you need help setting up your computer, then by going to a computer fair, where you actually need what the men there have to offer, you may meet the man for you. Particularly if you are not even interested in computers, your chances increase even more. 328 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. If you need help setting up your computer, then by going to a computer fair, you may meet the right man. By asking for directions when you are lost or on a trip, you become more receptive to appreciating what a man can give you. If you take a trail ride or go on an adventure tour, there are many times when you would need a man’s help. By attending any class to learn something, you are creating the ideal opportunity for a guy to be helpful. Attending any sporting event that you know very little about makes you more receptive to receiving a man’s help in understanding the game. Men love to be experts. Whenever you go to places where a man’s expertise can be helpful, there will be more chemistry. By attending any class to learn something, you are creating the ideal opportunity for a guy to be helpful. If she goes to a dance, a woman definitely needs and appreciates a partner to dance with. When women dance with women, it puts a man out of a job. A man feels a greater risk of being rejected when he doesn’t feel needed. Ideally, you can go dancing with couples who are friends. With your girlfriend’s permission, you can dance with your friend’s boyfriend or husband. When an interested man sees that you are dancing with a man you are not involved with, he will be encouraged to ask you to dance. People naturally get on a train when it is just about to leave. Likewise when a woman is already dancing with someone it makes a man want to ask her to dance even more. WHERE TO FIND YOUR SOUL MATE / 329 Places Where a Man Feels Needed With this insight a man can wisely meet the woman of his dreams in a place where she will feel most receptive to what he has to offer. By doing volunteer work in a community, he may find the perfect woman for him. By helping out with parades, he will meet many women. When a woman has a chance to experience the benefit of a man with a plan, she begins to feel her chemistry with him. Whenever a situation arises where leadership is required, you should jump at that opportunity. Even if your soul mate is not there, someone may be watching who will eventually introduce you to her. Whenever a situation arises where leadership is required, you should jump at that opportunity. By baby-sitting for a friend and strolling with the baby at different times in the park, you will attract women like bees to honey. Women will immediately begin to think, This man is really caring; he is responsible; he helps take care of a baby. If you are not really that caring, you should not fake it just to get a woman. The point of these suggestions is not to create temporary attraction but to find a woman for whom you feel lasting attraction. When you show your responsible side, the woman for you has the chance to feel her attraction for you. By baby-sitting for a friend and strolling with the baby in the park, a man will attract women like bees to honey. You do not need to worry that she will feel you are taken. She will come up and talk about the baby. She will ask lots of questions about the baby to give you many opportunities to 330 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. explain that it is not yours. When she finds out you are available, she will be really thrilled. If you don’t know anyone with a baby, then you can borrow someone’s dog and walk it at different times in the park. You can most effectively find a partner in places where women are dependent on you for a certain kind of support. Whenever there is a crisis in the community, a fire, flood, earthquake, storm, tornado, or hurricane, these are the best times for you to go out, be of service, and find a wife. When a man wears a uniform, it helps a woman feel her chemistry. A uniform symbolizes that a man has a certain purpose in which he is confident and responsible. When you wear your uniform, it demonstrates that you are proud of what you do and that you love your work. These are big pluses. On your day off, whenever you can get away with it, you should wear your uniform. Women love a man in a uniform, and a man should wear one whenever he can get away with it. By putting himself in situations where he is needed by women, children, and the elderly, a man can bring out the best in a woman. When she expresses a sense of grace and receptiveness in response to his efforts, he can feel the potential chemistry between them. Sometimes he cannot feel the chemistry unless he first actually does something that stimulates a response in her. Her response makes him feel that by providing for her needs, he can get the trust, acceptance, and appreciation that he needs in order to thrive in a relationship. Likewise, when a man expresses a sense of confidence, purposefulness, and responsibility in his actions, a woman WHERE TO FIND YOUR SOUL MATE / 331 feels the chemistry she has for him. His efforts convince her that she could get the caring consideration, understanding, and respect that she needs in a relationship. Let’s explore an example of how emotional chemistry can be triggered. Harry, an acting teacher, said, “I first met my wife, Trudy, in one of my classes. She was a great student. I felt so attracted to her when I first looked at her that I could barely teach the class. When I thought about asking her out, I couldn’t even breathe, much less think of what to say. Eventually I summoned up my courage and offered to help her read scripts after class. It was a memorable moment. The sparks were flying. “The next week I assigned romantic scripts to act out. After class, she asked me if I would read scripts with her again. I was a bumbling idiot when I tried to talk with Trudy, but I could read a script. Although someone else wrote the script, when I read it Trudy was won over. To this day I still thank Shakespeare. We both smiled that day and we have been smiling ever since. Even to this day, I help her work on her scripts. I love having a skill that she clearly appreciates.” THE THIRD ELEMENT OF CHEMISTRY: MATURITY The third element is maturity. Soul mates basically have similar levels of maturity. In most cases, as we continue to grow older we gain a certain depth in our lives. We will automatically feel a chemistry with someone who reflects our level of maturity or depth. This maturity does not necessarily have to do with age, but it is a big factor. One of the ways to experience this chemistry is to visit places where you are assured of meeting people your age. School reunions are great for this. Even if you don’t meet someone right away, by reconnecting to these people you 332 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. may get their support in finding someone. Many of their friends will be your age. We cannot fully recognize a soul mate until we are ready. We need to know ourselves first before we can recognize the right person for us. Each time we gain experience of the higher stages of dating, our maturity and discernment increase. After ending a long-term relationship, or a marriage, one of the best ways to find a soul mate is to revisit previous partners with whom you have felt chemistry. After taking several months to grieve the loss of a relationship, when you are feeling more complete and autonomous, then take some time to get reacquainted with all past partners who are available. Just call to get reacquainted and see if sparks begin to fly. Many people grow and mature in a relationship so that when they move on, they find they are ready for a relationship that didn’t work in the past. Let’s look at an example. Getting Reacquainted Tricia, a bookkeeper, said, “I had finally completed a two-year relationship and was looking forward to spending a quiet weekend in prayer, meditation, and catching up on my reading. I felt I had had enough of men for a while and I said, This weekend is for my relationship with God.” Then, out of the blue, Tommy, an old boyfriend, called. They hadn’t talked in four years. They had dated for more than a year, but after a while they just went their separate ways. Tricia had always felt a special chemistry with Tommy and was very sad when he got involved with someone else. During his call he said he had been married and divorced in a two-year period and that for the last year he had been single WHERE TO FIND YOUR SOUL MATE / 333 again. He had called just to catch up. In their phone conversation, after hearing her voice, he realized that he had made a mistake in leaving her. He told her, “It is so great to talk with you after all these years. I am feeling so much love in my heart for you. It’s as though the angels in heaven are singing.” With one phone call he realized that he was ready to have a committed relationship with her. He was ready to move into stage three because he had grown to the place where he knew what he wanted and immediately felt chemistry on all levels: physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual. He wanted to give their relationship a chance. He had matured so much in his last relationship that he immediately knew she was the one for him. Tricia told him that her weekend was reserved for God. Instead of taking that as a no, Tommy got excited and said, “That’s it; that’s why I must have called. I am the answer to your prayers.” They both laughed. Tommy was so insistent on coming that Tricia finally agreed. He drove six hours to be with her. He even got a speeding ticket. They stayed up all night talking. After one month they became engaged, and within six months they were married. Tommy and Tricia had loved each other before, but it just hadn’t been the right time. With the wisdom that only experience can provide, they now realized they were soul mates. Maturity Means Greater Wisdom As we become more mature, we gain greater wisdom and self-control. If we have negative addictive habits, eventually we feel motivated to clean up our life. We start reaching out to get support from others who are also putting their lives in order. By attending various support groups, you have an oppor334 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. tunity to experience the chemistry that comes from shared maturity. There are all kinds of support groups. There are church-sponsored groups, “parents without partners” groups, Alcoholics Anonymous groups, and so on. All of these places are excellent for making new friends who will open many new doors to find your soul mate. By attending support groups we can find people with similar maturity. If you are not making the changes you feel you should be making, then you will be less attractive to others. A potential soul mate may just feel something is missing. What is missing is another attempt to put your life in order. Putting Our Lives in Order When Justin heard this, he realized that he had been afraid once again to try to quit smoking. He thought that if he tried he would just fail. When he heard that with maturity the power to change increases, he decided once again to give up smoking. He was thirty-eight and decided that he could do it. At a party he told some of his friends that he had quit smoking. They were very proud of him. That evening, Christina, a former girlfriend, approached him and they started talking. She was very impressed with his change. She realized that when she had felt so attracted to him, his smoking had been the main reason that she held back from fully embracing him. Justin and Christina were soul mates, but they didn’t know it until Justin reached a certain level of maturity. It was not that smoking made Justin unattractive. What WHERE TO FIND YOUR SOUL MATE / 335 made him unattractive was not living up to his potential. By holding on to habits that he was strong enough and mature enough to release, he had made himself less attractive. Because he made the commitment to change, they were both eventually able to make the commitment to get married. The More We Know, the More We Don’t Know The more we know, the more we don’t know. With the wisdom of greater maturity, we naturally seek out additional information on subjects that are dear to us. Another way to find someone with your level of maturity is to take a class in a subject that is important to your well-being. Carol, an insurance salesperson, said, “I met my husband in a Mars/Venus workshop. I was so impressed by his interest in learning more about women and relationships. I thought if there was anybody that I would want to marry it would be someone who knew these things about men and women or at least was interested in learning more. I guess I wanted insurance. “Right away I knew I could trust him. I felt it was fate that brought us together. I helped out a little, however. I only took seven workshops before I met him. The odds were in my favor that I would meet a man interested in a quality relationship.” Letting Go of the Past Sometimes as we get older we just assume things will be the same. We don’t realize that patterns can and do change. Both men and women hold back from getting involved when they assume that every relationship has to be the same. When we take time to learn from the mistakes in our past 336 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. relationships, we can have confidence that our future relationships will be better. Pauline worked as a manager for the phone company. She said, “I met my husband, Craig, at a dinner party. My friends introduced us, but I wasn’t the least bit interested in getting involved again. I had been married twice before. But there was something different about Craig. I wasn’t physically attracted to him at all, but he was the most interesting man I had ever met. “Craig is seven years older than me, but that adds to my attraction to him. I have always been mature for my age. He responds to things in such a thoughtful and considerate manner. I admire his wisdom about the world. “I realized that I just needed someone who had more maturity to stimulate me. In previous relationships, I had always followed my sexual attractions, but this time, even though there was no sexual chemistry, I felt that he was very interesting. He pursued me. After a while, it finally happened. I was really surprised to experience that I felt a passionate physical attraction for him as well. It took a while to build, but for years now it just keeps on burning.” THE FOURTH ELEMENT OF CHEMISTRY: RESONANCE The fourth element of chemistry is resonance. Soul mates have similar values that resonate. This element of chemistry inspires us to be the best we can be. When we are with our partner, what is most important to him or her resonates with what is really important to us. Your partner’s values concerning God, family, work, recreation, politics, money, character, sex, and marriage resonate within you and inspire you. You are able to see the good in your soul mate and respect and admire his or her values. To WHERE TO FIND YOUR SOUL MATE / 337 have similar values does not mean that you will necessarily think and feel the same way about issues. You will be able to respect your partner’s viewpoint and admire where he or she is coming from. One person could be a Democrat and the other a Republican. Even though they have different approaches, they both value a fair government for the people. But if one valued the tyranny of dictatorship and the other valued democracy, there would not be enough resonance to create soul chemistry. The most common place people find their soul mate is at their church, their synagogue, or some other place of worship. This is because people of similar values will be drawn to a particular spiritual institution. They are able to meet people whose spiritual values resonate with their own. Roberto felt chemistry with Lucia because their values resonated. Roberto, an engineer, said, “I met my wife, Lucia, at church. We attended several classes together and eventually went out. I noticed her right away, but as I got to know her I fell in love with her. I think sharing the same faith made it easier for us to accept and trust each other. We have so many differences, but we do share the same beliefs about life and family. I respected her values and I wanted her to be the mother of my children. I feel so fortunate to have met her. I think it was meant to be.” Sharing values makes us compatible with someone. It helps us to overcome the challenges that come with any relationship. When we experience the inevitable ups and downs, we can always get back up when deep in our souls we resonate with the highest values of our partner. This compatibility allows us to make compromises without giving up who we are or what is important to us. By going to places where our values are supported, we are also sure to meet our soul mate. 338 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. HAVING FUN TOGETHER Another place to find a soul mate is on vacation. If you like to dance, party, and have fun, then a vacation where everyone eats together and shares recreational activities is ideal for meeting your soul mate. Cruises and resorts like Club Med are excellent places to meet a soul mate. Crystal, a schoolteacher, shared, “I met my husband, Charlie, at a Club Med resort. We were both recreational instructors. We both loved water sports and enjoyed having lots of fun. Charlie is a great dancer and I just fell in love with him. I think it was fate that brought us together at that particular location. There were so many other locations to pick from and this was not even the one I wanted to work at. It was the only one that had a job opening. “Charlie now works in the publishing business. We still love going on vacations together and we live by the water. When we fight about things we take time out to go dancing or sailing and then it is so much easier to make up.” 21 101 Places to Meet Your Soul Mate By combining the four elements of chemistry—different interests, complementary needs, maturity, and resonant values—we achieve the possibility of lasting and passionate love. To find a partner and create a relationship with this kind of potential, we need to look in the right places. We don’t have to wait for a chance or accidental meeting. We can begin looking for our soul mate by putting ourselves in places where the odds are in our favor. Let’s review all of the different ways and places to find a soul mate and explore a few more. As you read the list, see if you can recognize which of the different elements of chemistry you are sure to find. 101 WAYS TO MEET YOUR SOUL MATE 1. Attend a friend’s party, give a party yourself, go dancing with friends. There is still no better way to meet someone than being introduced by a friend. 339 340 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. 2. Call up a friend’s date if and when they stop seeing each other. Be certain your friend is no longer seeing the person. 3. Get involved with an old friend whose spouse has died or who is now divorced. Even if there was no attraction in the past, it may spring up now that your friend is available. 4. Join the Adopt-a-Single program. Ask a couple to adopt you for a three-month period and introduce you to their friends. Ask them how they met and then try going to similar places. Spend time with couples who are happily married; whatever it is they have will start to rub off on you. Having a positive picture in your mind of what a relationship can be like will also help you pick the right person for you. If you are negative about the opposite sex, then you will keep getting negative relationships. 5. Join a community cause or participate in a service activity like feeding the poor or helping children without parents. In the process, you will not only feel good but you will meet people who admire you and appreciate your goodwill. This will lead to meeting your soul mate. 6. Go to places where you have a lot of expertise and people feel comfortable coming up to you for support or advice. Do not hesitate to meet someone by offering your help or assistance. 7. Take a class that is particularly popular because the professor or teacher is so interesting and stimulating. 101 PLACES TO MEET YOUR SOUL MATE / 341 Then, when you meet someone, you will also seem very interesting. Ask a potential partner to help you with your homework for a class or do a class project together. 8. Go to school reunions. So many people meet again and fall in love. Sometimes we’re just not ready for our soul mate, but the chemistry can remain. 9. Go to places where you don’t have any expertise so that you feel comfortable going up to someone and getting to know him or her by asking for help. A man can also charm a woman when he is open to getting advice from her. 10. Become friends with the friends of someone you would really like to meet. Be up-front in your friendship by asking questions about their friend. 11. Go to places where the numbers work in your favor. Women should go to places where many men are present and vice versa. 12. Go to a town meeting. You can easily meet people and talk about their views on what is being discussed. To hear and support a person’s beliefs and convictions when that person is feeling challenged can make him or her a friend for life. 13. Go to places where people are interested in things that you are not interested in. If you are not interested in museums, then go to a museum and ask questions of people who are art lovers. 342 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. 14. In a restaurant, a woman should get up several times and walk to the rest room so that a man has a chance to see her and be interested. He should take the risk and get up to meet her if he is interested. He can simply give her a card if he is shy. 15. Make eye contact with the person you are interested in. A woman can look away, talk to a friend, ask her to look, then talk a little bit, look back, and smile. This gives a man a clear message that she is interested. 16. Go to places where you like the way you look. If you like wearing a bathing suit, then go to the beach. If you don’t, don’t bother. Go where you feel most beautiful or handsome. 17. Wear a uniform occasionally, even when you are off duty. It makes you more accessible to others. They feel they can ask you a question or ask for your help in some manner. 18. Create opportunities to meet apart from the group you are with. It can be very intimidating for a man to approach a woman in a group of six women. If he is rejected, he knows all six will be discussing him. 19. At a party, when a woman continues to move around, a man has an easier time approaching her. Avoid getting stuck on the couch. 20. People are always most comfortable talking and meeting in kitchens. Hang out where the food is. 101 PLACES TO MEET YOUR SOUL MATE / 343 21. Participate in church or school fund-raisers, gatherings, events, and celebrations. 22. Even better, help put on church, school, and community events. 23. Join the support team at your church. It is always easiest to get to know people when they are in the mode of service. They can offer to help and they can ask for help. 24. Go to places where you are not very competent and need the assistance of others. 25. If you are a single parent, get to know all your children’s friends’ parents. Become friends by sharing the baby-sitting. Ask them to take your child sometimes; then they will feel comfortable asking you. Then ask them to adopt you as their single friend and help you to meet someone. 26. Volunteer to handle the seating or name tags at a school, church, or community celebration. This way you get to make contact with everyone single. 27. Help out or learn to facilitate a Mars/Venus workshop or any other singles program and meet people with similar values. 28. If you are a Democrat, visit a gathering or rally of Republicans. Let them try to convince you of their point of view. This makes for great conversation and connection. 344 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. 29. If you are not interested in gardening, then take a class in gardening, go to a public garden, or buy vegetables from a market where people who enjoy gardening shop. 30. If you are not into history, go on a town walking tour. Ask lots of questions and meet the people in your community. 31. If you can’t operate a VCR, spend time in an electronic equipment store and ask questions. Or go to the yearly conventions that showcase the latest gadgets. 32. If you are not interested in therapy and have never done it, take a personal growth workshop and meet people who are interested in and benefit from therapy. 33. If you don’t watch Monday Night Football, then start going to local sporting events at all levels, from kids’ soccer, baseball, basketball, and football games all the way up to professional sports. Ask lots of questions to learn all the rules and who the players are. 34. Bring food to community events. 35. If you are not religious, begin visiting your local church, or synagogue, or some other place of worship. Ask your friends which one to visit. Participate in their classes. 36. If you always buy books, try hanging out in the library, where people read but don’t buy. 37. If you don’t read a lot, try hanging out in a bookstore and ask people who their favorite authors are. Strike 101 PLACES TO MEET YOUR SOUL MATE / 345 up a conversation and get to know someone by asking more questions about favorite books. 38. Go to book signings of authors you really like. 39. If you don’t eat out, try dining out more often. 40. If you have a favorite restaurant, try a new one occasionally. 41. If you are not a morning person, get up earlier and go for a walk or jog and meet all the morning people. 42. If you rarely walk, try walking around your neighborhood at the same time for a week. Then change the time the next week. Continue to change the time, and eventually you will meet more people. Repetition of contact creates a familiarity that can stimulate chemistry. 43. If you always go to movies, try hanging out at the video store. Direct your questions about movies to people whom you feel some chemistry with. 44. If you rarely go to the theater, try hanging out at the bars and restaurants people visit after the theater. 45. If you love the theater but don’t go to movies, then go to a new movie and wait in line. Lines are great for getting to meet people. 46. If you don’t go to openings or big events because you don’t like crowds, then your soul mate is probably there missing you. 346 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. 47. If you like opera but don’t like pop concerts, then try going to a concert with friends. You may meet your soul mate. 48. If you don’t like to dance, then definitely get out there and dance. Take dance lessons and go to dance competitions. 49. If you like to eat out, then take cooking lessons and learn to cook. 50. If you love to cook, never miss an opportunity to cook for your friends. Let it be known to all what a good cook you are. 51. If you drink and generally hang out at a bar, then try hanging out in a coffee shop where no alcohol is served. Your soul mate may not drink. 52. If you don’t like loud music, get some friends together and go to where the music is loud. Wear earplugs and dance a lot. If you meet someone, then let him or her know you would like to talk sometime when you can hear each other. 53. If you are not drawn to water sports, then go on a vacation where most of the people love water sports. 54. If you’ve never been on a cruise, or you are not even interested in one, that’s all the more reason to go on a cruise and meet someone who loves cruises. 55. If you hate standing in lines, then your soul mate may be the patient one waiting in a line somewhere. If you 101 PLACES TO MEET YOUR SOUL MATE / 347 just can’t bear the line, at least go to openings and popular events to walk up and down the line as if you are looking for someone. 56. If you bring a bag lunch to work, try eating out sometimes. 57. If you don’t take breaks at work, take one for tea or coffee—you may meet someone new. 58. If you eat out a lot, spend a lot of time in your local market. Your soul mate may just love to make dinners. 59. If you prefer heath foods, your soul mate may be waiting for you to inspire him or her. Try eating at fast food restaurants sometimes. 60. If you generally like very formal and fancy entertainment and food, try going out with friends to a more simple, relaxed, and less expensive establishment. 61. If a woman always wears a lot of makeup or jewelry, she should try wearing less and sometimes none. Her soul mate will love her just the way she is, and it may take some time for him to also like her in makeup. 62. If a woman always dresses in a sexy manner and attracts the attention of many men, she should try dressing in a less provocative manner and attract the attention of more discerning guys who are also interested in getting to know her. 348 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. 63. If you don’t like getting dressed up, then pick an event each month where dressing up is required. Cruises are great for this. There are many formal events. Every man looks great in a tux, even if he doesn’t like getting all dressed up. Women get a chance to shine when they dress up. 64. If you like to sit by the ocean and not at the pool on vacations, then try a change. Sit by the pool each day to meet the people there as well. 65. If you don’t like the sand and prefer sitting around the pool, try going for long walks by the ocean. Your soul mate probably loves the sand. 66. If you don’t like sunbathing or you don’t have a tan, then head for the resorts of sun worshipers. Your soul mate probably loves sunbathing. 67. If you don’t like camping, start doing it. Hang out at wilderness stores and ask lots of questions. Get with some friends and go camping in a place where you will also meet other campers and hikers. 68. If you don’t like to bike, then start building up those muscles and go on a group biking adventure. If you make new friends, even when none of them is the one, they may connect you to the right person. 69. If you don’t like to ski, then go skiing with friends and hang out in the common areas where people eat and drink or spend time in hot tubs or spas. 101 PLACES TO MEET YOUR SOUL MATE / 349 70. Men can meet so many women by going to aerobics classes, while women can meet men in the workout room. They can easily meet by spending some time at the gym. 71. Go on an adventure tour with others and make new friends. 72. If you like to work out or play inside, then try exercising or playing outside. There is generally a lot of chemistry between inside and outside people. 73. If you are a morning person, make the effort to go out and stay up late. The person for you may be a night owl or a party person who needs your stability. 74. Participate in school projects like plays, celebrations, fundraisers, and sports activities. You will have the opportunity to meet all the single parents. Even if you don’t have children, help a friend out with his or her children and take them to their events. When you get involved with a person who has children, you will get the extra benefit of his or her gratitude to you for being there for the kids as well. 75. Baby-sit for friends and stroll with their child through the park, or borrow a friend’s dog for a walk. Women are particularly attracted to a man who can care for a child or a pet. When a man or a woman is walking a dog, it is easy for someone to strike up a conversation about the pet. Everyone is attracted to a baby and feels free to strike up a conversation. 350 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. 76. If you like to dress up in a formal manner, then try wearing more casual clothes. 77. If you are always very organized and plan out your free time, make no plans and just follow your instincts. Sometimes we are so much in our heads, figuring out what to do, that our gut instincts don’t have the opportunity to move us toward our soul mate. 78. If you always go to places with friends, try going alone. When we are alone, we tend to feel our need for support more and are more receptive to meeting someone. Others are more inclined to offer help and assistance when you are alone. 79. If you have never ridden a horse or you don’t like horses, it’s time to go for a ride. 80. If you don’t like to drive fast, go to a racetrack or an amateur racing day. Quite often, when one soul mate likes to drive fast, the other likes it slow and safe. 81. If you like to live in the lap of luxury, try going for a backpacking trip in the wilderness and you may meet your soul mate. You don’t have to go alone; there are all kinds of groups that will support you. Go to a store that sells camping equipment, and the staff will be able to give you the help you need. 82. If you have never been to a garage sale, then this is the time to start shopping. If you don’t go to sales, then your perfect partner might wait until there is a sale before going shopping. You may need a little more frugality in 101 PLACES TO MEET YOUR SOUL MATE / 351 your life and you will find him or her at a sale trying to save money. 83. If you have a definite routine, try changing it to create the opportunity for change to happen. Try changing the route you take to work. Eventually take all possible routes. 84. If you always park in a garage at work, try parking down the street and walking a distance to work. It is good exercise and you may meet new people. 85. Go alone on a river-rafting adventure with a group. When you don’t know anyone and you’re having an exciting adventure, a new part of you will come out. 86. If you like going to rock and roll concerts, try going to the symphony or the opera. During intermission, you may find your partner by going to food and drink counters and by checking out the bathroom lines. 87. Go out to find a partner on weeknights. Don’t wait for the weekend. During the week, people are much less likely to be on a date and therefore much more available and interested in getting to know someone. 88. Quite often soul mates have a different temperature preference. If you generally go to warm climates, try going to a cooler climate. Go skiing or ice-skating. If you like the cold, then try going to the beach on a hot day to find your partner. 89. If you are not interested in computers or high-tech equipment, then go to a computer fair and ask a lot of 352 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. questions. People will love to help you. Men particularly love to be experts. 90. If you are not interested in having a great view, then your soul mate will always prefer a view. Go to places that promise a commanding and spectacular view to meet your soul mate. 91. Be a tourist in your own town. Pretend that you are alone and from out of town. You will meet all kinds of people who want to share your town with them. You will discover things that you never knew existed and in the process could meet the right person for you. Get help from the office of tourism. Visit all the sights, parks, museums, colleges, and universities. Take guided tours. Your soul mate may be a tourist who is being guided to come to your town to find you. 92. If you don’t like weddings, this is the time to start going. People are most inspired at weddings. If you are not drawn, then your partner probably is. You may need him or her to inspire you. 93. Visit comedy clubs with friends. When you are laughing and having a good time, it brings out the best in you. Sometimes when you are feeling your best, you will attract the best person for you. 94. When you are in a bad mood, do something that you really don’t like doing. This way it can’t make you feel worse. Sometimes when we are in a bad mood, deep inside we are feeling our deep need to be loved and to be loving. This vulnerability can attract the right per101 PLACES TO MEET YOUR SOUL MATE / 353 son who has what we need. Sometimes it is when we are down and out, when we really need help, that God’s angels bring us a miracle. 95. Meet your soul mate through placing or answering a singles ad. When writing your ad, remember to express your most positive self and clearly maintain the appropriate role. A woman’s role should be similar to that of a shopper or the role of someone offering a job. She should not say anything to win a man’s interest; instead, she writes what she wants in a man and what she enjoys most. A man, however, needs to maintain the role of applying for the job. He needs to talk about himself in glowing terms and describe what he has to offer and is hoping to offer. In short, a man describes what he has to give and a woman describes what she would like to receive. 96. Dating services are a great way to meet the right person for you. They make it so much easier to get to know a person before actually meeting. It is similar to having a friend introduce you to someone. You get to feel as if you know something about a person before you meet. If you would never consider a dating service, then your soul mate probably would. 97. If you have finished going to school, try continuing your education. Take classes in things that you have never studied, particularly when they involve labs, projects, or discussions. 98. Join a chorus and sing—particularly if you don’t like to sing, you can’t sing, or you are too serious. Singing 354 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. frees the soul and will connect you to your feelings of joy and inspiration. 99. Go on a vacation where people pay one price and then share everything. Some people go to Club Med or other similar resorts. 100. Your grocery store is a great place to meet someone by comparing recipes and asking for advice. Make it a practice to always ask people questions or offer advice while shopping. 101. On an airplane, hang out near the rest rooms and strike up a conversation while waiting in line. It is also easy to start a conversation by asking where someone is from and where he or she is going. Be sure to walk up and down the aisles to be seen and to see if your soul mate is there. By referring to this list again and again, you will not only be inspired and motivated to keep dating but you will more quickly find your soul mate. By visiting places where you have a better chance to find chemistry, you will awaken the elements of chemistry in yourself. As a result, you will be a more fulfilled person capable of enjoying the adventures of being single. 22 And They Lived Happily Ever After Some people do live happily ever after. They haven’t studied the five stages of dating, nor did they take a workshop to discover how to pick the right person for them. They just did it. They either gracefully went through the five stages without even knowing it or they just lucked out and picked the right person anyway. After getting married they gradually learned the skills of making a marriage work on their own. For most of us, finding the right person and being able to make a relationship work are important skills we need to learn, develop, and practice. It is easy to become discouraged in our journey to find the right person if we don’t understand that there are many different roads to reach the same destination. 355 356 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. THREE STYLES OF LEARNING Finding a partner is like any other skill in life; it takes talent, education, and practice. The more information, education, and experience you have, the better you will be. Through gaining all three, your chances of mastering a skill are the highest. Shakespeare alluded to these three styles of learning when he said, “Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them.” Another way of putting it is that there are runners, walkers, and jumpers. Let’s explore these styles in greater detail. Style One: Runners Some people are just gifted. They are born with an enormous talent. For example, they can sit down at a piano and practically start playing right away. They can just hear a song and then play it. They don’t need to read music. These gifted students or prodigies are the runners. They quickly find success and achievement in a particular endeavor. In relationships, runners are those few who just meet someone, fall in love, and live happily ever after. They are the minority. Most of us are not runners. Style Two: Walkers Most people are walkers. They learn from a teacher and through trial and error. These people do not have greatness given to them. Instead they earn it, they attain it, they seek it out and find it, they do something to make it happen. These people discover their talent through education and a series of life experiences. In learning to play the piano, for example, they gradually learn to play with the expert guidance of a teacher and by learning to read music. AND THEY LIVED HAPPILY EVER AFTER / 357 In relationships, this can be likened to learning from each relationship how to understand and “read” the opposite sex correctly. By steadily moving ahead, walkers eventually find the right person for them. Every relationship assists them in moving on to finding the right person for them. Through taking the time to move through the different stages of dating and ending relationships with a positive note, they are able to hit the target and find their soul mate. Style Three: Jumpers Jumpers are late bloomers. They have greatness thrust upon them. For many years they may appear not to be moving forward or progressing. They may even seem to be going backward. They may practice and practice but to no avail. Although it may seem that they are not learning, they are. What goes in eventually comes out. With enough observation of others playing the piano, with enough listening to music and enough practice, they just start playing one day. Einstein was a jumper when it came to learning to speak. As a child, he said nothing for years. He just listened to others speak. He observed and took it all in. Then, at five years old, he began to speak in full sentences. He jumped from saying nothing to complete sentences and skipped the stages in between. In relationships, jumpers meet the right person for them long after all their friends are married. To their great surprise, they find someone, fall in love, and live happily ever after. There are many people who are forty or fifty years old who have not gotten married or have not experienced a deeply intimate relationship. As a result of reaching a certain level of maturity, their innate talent and wisdom for having a loving and intimate relationship suddenly emerges and they meet their soul mate. Even 358 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. if you are a jumper and your time is yet to come, the wisdom of the five stages will assist you in having more fulfilling relationships until the time is right for you. By understanding these three different styles of learning, we can more easily appreciate the importance of the five stages of dating. As we continue to get closer to finding true love, it is easy to be thrown off track if we lack an understanding of our differences. DIFFERENCES ARE NOT OBSTACLES Even when we feel chemistry with someone, we can easily make the mistake of assuming that we are just too different to make a relationship work. This is why the insights of Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus have helped so many relationships. Couples commonly make the mistake of assuming that they are just too different ever to get their needs met. In many cases they were able to begin getting what they needed by understanding their differences, and they discovered that differences were a source of fulfillment and support rather than an obstacle. In a similar manner, when you meet someone who has different interests, it does not mean that a relationship is hopeless. With good communication skills, different interests don’t have to be a source of conflict. When a woman complains that her husband plays too much golf or is too involved in sports, his interest in sports is not really the problem. The problem is their inability to nurture each other’s needs. RESENTMENT CREATES POLARIZATION When men and women misunderstand each other, misinterpret each other’s actions, and miscommunicate their feelings, AND THEY LIVED HAPPILY EVER AFTER / 359 they are unable to successfully nurture each other and get what they need. The result of this is resentment. When resentment builds, our different interests become more extreme. We begin to polarize. These are some examples of how resentment and polarization affect a relationship: How Resentment Creates Polarization She wants to go out; he becomes very tired. He wants to go to a movie; she wants to go to a concert. She wants to have Chinese food; he wants Italian. He wants sex; she is not in the mood. She wants to go for a walk; he wants to watch TV. He is late for work; she wants to talk. In each of these examples their interests and desires are polarized. When one person wants something, the other wants something else. When resentment builds, then our different interests become more extreme. The more we are polarized, the more interested we become in the things our partners are not interested in. When resentment is released with better communication, understanding, and forgiveness, our differences do not show up as obstacles. As we love our partners, over time we actually start becoming more interested in their interests. 360 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. We are attracted to people with different interests because in some way they make us feel whole; they balance out our lives. By means of their different interests, they express some aspect of themselves that we have not yet developed within ourselves. Over time, as our love unites us, we begin to share more and more interests. Their presence stimulates our growth and keeps us more interested in all the different aspects of living. SOUL MATES HARMONIZE THEIR DIFFERENCES It is very important not to expect our partners to resonate so much with our values that they think and feel the way we do. We must be careful not to conclude that resonating values means having the same interests or even the same needs. As we have already explored, soul mates have different interests and they have different emotional needs as well. Resonance of values creates a basis from which we can work through our differences and find fair compromises. Resonance helps soul mates harmonize their differences. Resonance of values creates a basis from which we can work through our differences and find fair compromises. Resonance helps us to understand and support our partner’s point of view or needs, even when our perspective is different. Although it is sometimes difficult to find a win-win solution, with good communication, love, and shared values, it is possible. While our differences are definitely inconvenient, they stretch us to be more whole, loving, and considerate. We are attracted to someone who is different in order to satisfy the AND THEY LIVED HAPPILY EVER AFTER / 361 deep yearning of our soul to expand and embrace that which is beyond ourselves. In this way, we expand to more of what we can be. In this sense, a relationship assists and supports us in being all that we can be. We are attracted to someone who is different in order to satisfy the deep yearning of our soul to expand and embrace that which is beyond ourselves. To maintain a realistic expectation of how soul mates harmonize their differences, let’s explore a few examples of how we can be very different but have the same values. • Vincent and Angela vote very differently, but their values resonate. They both care about and are committed to the well-being of the community. • Coleman likes to buy things on impulse and Robin likes to take a lot of time researching a purchase. They both care about having nice things around them. When they buy something together, Coleman now takes much longer than he would on his own. Many times what they get ends up being much nicer. At other times when they buy something for him, they just get it right away. • Leann likes therapy and Jack likes football. They both do what is important for them to relax and get in touch with their feelings. They respect each other’s different approach to finding some peace of mind. • Jerry likes to not talk much about his problems, while Barbara likes to get it all out. They cope with their 362 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. issues differently, but they perfectly complement each other. He likes to watch the news and she likes to give it. When she needs to talk, he has learned to be a great listener. Sometimes he then talks about his day too. • Lucy is really sensitive about certain things and Roger isn’t. She gets upset when there is a change of plans and he just goes with the flow. Roger is still able to respect this difference because they share similar values. They both make their love more important than their differences. As he takes the time to listen to what bothers her, he is respectful even though he doesn’t feel as strongly bothered as she does. He can be supportive even though he doesn’t necessarily agree with her point of view. They agree to disagree sometimes. • Claudia is really involved with parenting and Clarence isn’t. Clarence is a hard worker who wants to provide the very best for his family. They could experience a lot of conflict, but they don’t. They are aware that they share the same good intent—for their children to have the best they can provide. They just show that intent differently. • Keith wants sex more than Theresa. They both value intimacy. He likes physical intimacy more, while she likes sharing her life and feelings. This understanding that they really share the same intent—to get close—makes it easy to make compromises at times without feeling they have to give up what is important to them. Theresa is also able to recognize that his desire for sex does not mean he doesn’t care about her. It is his way of AND THEY LIVED HAPPILY EVER AFTER / 363 feeling intimate with her. It helps him to feel connected to her. • Bob likes high-tech equipment, while Ava likes things simple and old-fashioned. They both care a good deal about beauty in their home. Shopping and remodeling for them can be quite a challenge, but they end up with something much more interesting. • David is interested in new cars and Doris likes keeping things for a long time. They both value getting the full benefit out of something. He wants to make use of the latest cars being developed and she wants to use what she has, so he gets new cars and she keeps hers. • Thelma is into the environmental movement and Jacob is into his business. They both care about the world. He focuses more on helping people in his work, while she helps people by being an activist and writing letters to the government. • Paul likes parties and gatherings; Anna likes to spend time with a few friends at most. They both care about quality interactions. It is just that a party brings out the best in Paul, while an intimate gathering brings out the best in Anna. They simply alternate so both get what they need. Over time, she begins to like parties more and he grows to enjoy quieter social activities as well. • Jackson likes to travel and Martha likes to stay put in her garden. They both value quality relaxation time. She wishes sometimes that he would be more interested in 364 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. the garden, while he sometimes wishes she would enjoy traveling more. Yet the most important thing is that they love each other very much. Over the years, Jackson has grown to appreciate and enjoy the garden much more, while Martha enjoys traveling more. Through respecting their differences and making some sacrifices, they eventually grew closer. What was an annoyance in the beginning is now a source of greater fulfillment. With this understanding, we can clearly see our different interests as a source of stimulation and growth, not as an obstacle. Because of the differences, there will always be room to grow together. When we feel chemistry, it is a sign that this growth is possible. LOOKING IN THE RIGHT PLACE BUT FINDING THE WRONG PERSON TO LOVE By looking in the right places you will eventually find the right person, but sometimes you may find the wrong partner even in the right places. You may feel strong chemistry, but it is with a person who turns out to be way off the mark. This is all part of the learning process. By clearly learning from our mistakes, we will gain the ability to distinguish between healthy and unhealthy chemistry. By learning to recognize unhealthy chemistry and not act on it, you increase your ability to feel healthy chemistry. If you keep getting intimately involved in relationships based on unhealthy chemistry, your ability to feel healthy chemistry with the right person is minimized. To live happily ever after and find your soul mate, it is very important to distinguish between these two kinds of chemistry. AND THEY LIVED HAPPILY EVER AFTER / 365 UNHEALTHY EMOTIONAL CHEMISTRY When a man feels needed, the chemistry he experiences tends to be healthy, but when a man is primarily motivated by the possibility of getting his needs and wants satisfied, then the chemistry he feels is not necessarily very healthy. If he is just thinking about what he can get, then it is unhealthy. He may be a little unhealthy, like having a cold or the flu, or he may be really sick and need the help of a professional. When chemistry is unhealthy, it doesn’t mean anything about the ultimate potential of a relationship. When the problem is corrected, there may or may not be a potential for healthy chemistry between two particular people. When chemistry is unhealthy, if you are careful to follow the stages of dating and don’t rush into intimacy, the unhealthy chemistry will dissipate. During the five stages of getting to know a partner, the unhealthy chemistry will lessen. If you are in the right relationship, chemistry will return in a healthy way. These are some warning signals of unhealthy chemistry for men. Warning Signals of Unhealthy Chemistry in Men • He is attracted to wealthy women because he needs the money or doesn’t want to work. • He falls in love with his nurse: His attraction needs to be tested after he gets well. Only then can he know if he has something to offer her other than his appreciation for taking such good care of him. • He feels he needs a very attractive woman to prove to others that he is a success. 366 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. • He feels the need for sexual gratification from a sexually assertive or suggestive woman but clearly knows that he would not like to pursue a relationship with her. • He wants to move in with a woman because he wants to share the rent. Instead of moving in with her, he can easily find a buddy to share a place with. • He wants to get intimately involved right after ending a relationship. He is like a hungry person, starved for love and companionship. His discernment is low. After he gets back on his feet, he may easily lose his feeling of attraction to the woman. • He feels a woman loves him so much that he doesn’t want to end a good thing, but he clearly has no intention of marrying her one day. • He is attracted to a woman because she says, “You are the only man I have ever really liked. You are not like other men.” This may sound like a compliment, but it is a sign that she still has big issues about men. When she finds out that he is from Mars like other men, there will be a big disappointment. • He is involved with one woman and he feels chemistry for another. Certainly this will happen, but if he encourages it by pursuing or flirting with the other woman, he will experience even more chemistry with other women. In his primary relationship, the chemistry will not have a chance to grow. • He feels chemistry for a woman who is not available or not available to him. • He gets involved because a woman puts pressure on him, but he doesn’t feel a sexual attraction. She may even assure him that it will develop over time. While a woman’s sexual feelings do develop over time, a man tends to feel it from the start or not at all. • A woman says she loves him, but what he does is never enough to satisfy her. He will have a love-hate relationship. Certainly every woman continues to want more, but he AND THEY LIVED HAPPILY EVER AFTER / 367 should be getting a clear message that who he is and what he provides are enough. Warning Signals of Unhealthy Chemistry in Women When a woman feels needed more than she feels she is getting her needs met, she begins to feel unhealthy chemistry. These are some examples: • She feels sorry for a man and worries about how he will survive without her. • She feels that she just wants to love him and she doesn’t care about what she gets in return. Although this sounds noble, it will weaken him and she will eventually feel resentful. • A man says he needs her desperately and she is so flattered that she gets involved. 368 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. • A man is also seeing other women, but when he is with her he says she is the most special. If a man is seeing other women, then she is just fooling herself. There is no such thing as being the most special woman if he is dating other women. It means that she clearly isn’t the most special even if he says she is. • She sees a man’s potential and feels that with her help he could be great. When a woman takes credit for a man’s success, it is very likely that he will leave her one day to find a woman that he can take credit for making happy. • A man has a destructive habit and she feels she can help him. This chemistry occurs because a woman with low self-esteem feels better about herself when she feels that her problems are not her fault. By having someone to blame for her problems, she can hide from the truth that she is responsible for her life. • She feels sexually attracted to a man right away. This is a sign that she is reacting to her expectation of who this man is, not the man himself. Before acting on this chemistry, she needs to make sure they have moved through the first three stages. • She feels eager to accommodate and please a man. This is clearly a sign that she feels a man can give her what she needs, but she has not yet gotten what she needs. She should be careful to hold back until she actually gets what she needs. • She feels strong chemistry but clearly feels a man will have to make changes before she will get what she needs. AND THEY LIVED HAPPILY EVER AFTER / 369 She hopes that her love will change him. It is not fair to her or him if she gives of herself now, and then expects more from him later. This tendency will backfire. • She doesn’t feel respected by a man, but she is understanding of why he can’t do the right things. When he is disrespectful, he will justify it by either blaming his past or her. • She feels sexual chemistry, but she clearly doesn’t trust that she will ever get her other needs satisfied. By not understanding the signs of unhealthy chemistry, we can easily make the mistake of getting involved with someone who is clearly not right for us. IT IS NORMAL TO MAKE MISTAKES It is normal to make mistakes in finding the right person for you. The difference between success and failure is being able to learn from our mistakes to become more discerning. If you want to hit a home run, the chances of striking out go up dramatically. Babe Ruth, who held the record for the most home runs, also held the record for the most strikeouts. If you want your relationship to be more than what previous generations have experienced, then new skills must be learned. If you want to run fast, then your chances of falling also increase. The secret of success is to get up and keep going. You can do it. Once it happens, you will look back and realize that it happened at the right time for you. To find a soul mate, not just a secure partner, takes new insight, education, and lots of practice. With this kind of support, you can develop your ability to navigate through the five stages of dating to experience true and lasting love. 370 / JOHN GRAY, PH.D. By weathering the storms and droughts of love that inevitably arise from time to time, by repeatedly overcoming the challenge of harmonizing differences, and by coming back to your commitment to having a quality relationship, you will find your soul mate and live happily ever after. THE Five LOVE LANGUAGES OceanofPDF.com THE Five LOVE LANGUAGES How to Express Heartfelt Commitment to Your Mate OceanofPDF.com GARY CHAPMAN NORTHFIELD PUBLISHING CHICAGO OceanofPDF.com © 1992, 1995, 2004 by Gary D. Chapman All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form without permission in writing from the publisher, except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical articles or reviews. Scripture quotations, unless noted otherwise, are taken from the Holy Bible: New International Version®. Copyright © 1973, 1978, 1984, International Bible Society. Used by permission of Zondervan Publishing House. All rights reserved. The use of selected references from various versions of the Bible in this publication does not necessarily imply publisher endorsement of the versions in their entirety. ISBN: 978-1-881273-15-6 OceanofPDF.com To Karolyn, Shelley, and Derek OceanofPDF.com Other Great Books by Gary Chapman The Five Love Languages Men’s Edition The Five Love Languages Gift Edition The Five Love Languages of Children The Five Love Languages of Teenagers The Five Love Languages for Singles Your Gift of Love Parenting Your Adult Child The Other Side of Love Loving Solutions Five Signs of a Loving Family Toward a Growing Marriage Hope for the Separated Covenant Marriage OceanofPDF.com CONTENTS Acknowledgments 1. What Happens to Love After the Wedding? 2. Keeping the Love Tank Full 3. Falling in Love 4. Love Language #1: Words of Affirmation 5. Love Language #2: Quality Time 6. Love Language #3: Receiving Gifts 7. Love Language #4: Acts of Service 8. Love Language #5: Physical Touch 9. Discovering Your Primary Love Language 10. Love Is a Choice 11. Love Makes the Difference 12. Loving the Unlovely 13. Children and Love Languages 14. A Personal Word The Five Love Languages Profile for Husbands The Five Love Languages Profile for Wives OceanofPDF.com ACKNOWLEDGMENTS Love begins, or should begin, at home. For me that means Sam and Grace, Dad and Mom, who have loved me for more than fifty years. Without them I would still be seeking love instead of writing about it. Home also means Karolyn, to whom I have been married for more than forty years. If all wives loved as she does, fewer men would be looking over the fence. Shelley and Derek are now out of the nest, exploring new worlds, but I feel secure in the warmth of their love. I am blessed and grateful. I am indebted to a host of professionals who have influenced my concepts of love. Among them are psychiatrists Ross Campbell, Judson Swihart, and Scott Peck. For editorial assistance, I am indebted to Debbie Barr and Cathy Peterson. The technical expertise of Tricia Kube and Don Schmidt made it possible to meet publication deadlines. Last, and most important, I want to express my gratitude to the hundreds of couples who, over the past thirty years, have shared the intimate side of their lives with me. This book is a tribute to their honesty. OceanofPDF.com OceanofPDF.com chapter one OceanofPDF.com WHAT HAPPENS TO LOVE AFTER THE WEDDING? At 30,000 feet, somewhere between Buffalo and Dallas, he put his magazine in his seat pocket, turned in my direction, and asked, “What kind of work do you do?” “I do marriage counseling and lead marriage enrichment seminars,” I said matter-of-factly. “I’ve been wanting to ask someone this for a long time,” he said. “What happens to the love after you get married?” Relinquishing my hopes of getting a nap, I asked, “What do you mean?” “Well,” he said, “I’ve been married three times, and each time, it was wonderful before we got married, but somehow after the wedding it all fell apart. All the love I thought I had for her and the love she seemed to have for me evaporated. I am a fairly intelligent person. I operate a successful business, but I don’t understand it.” “How long were you married?” I asked. “The first one lasted about ten years. The second time, we were married three years, and the last one, almost six years.” “Did your love evaporate immediately after the wedding, or was it a gradual loss?” I inquired. “Well, the second one went wrong from the very beginning. I don’t know what happened. I really thought we loved each other, but the honeymoon was a disaster, and we never recovered. We only dated six months. It was a whirlwind romance. It was really exciting! But after the marriage, it was a battle from the beginning. “In my first marriage, we had three or four good years before the baby came. After the baby was born, I felt like she gave her attention to the baby and I no longer mattered. It was as if her one goal in life was to have a baby, and after the baby, she no longer needed me.” “Did you tell her that?” I asked. “Oh, yes, I told her. She said I was crazy. She said I did not understand the stress of being a twenty-four-hour nurse. She said I should be more understanding and help her more. I really tried, but it didn’t seem to make any difference. After that, we just grew further apart. After a while, there was no love left, just deadness. Both of us agreed that the marriage was over. “My last marriage? I really thought that one would be different. I had been divorced for three years. We dated each other for two years. I really thought we knew what we were doing, and I thought that perhaps for the first time I really knew what it meant to love someone. I genuinely felt that she loved me. “After the wedding, I don’t think I changed. I continued to express love to her as I had before marriage. I told her how beautiful she was. I told her how much I loved her. I told her how proud I was to be her husband. But a few months after marriage, she started complaining; about petty things at first— like my not taking the garbage out or not hanging up my clothes. Later, she went to attacking my character, telling me she didn’t feel she could trust me, accusing me of not being faithful to her. She became a totally negative person. Before marriage, she was never negative. She was one of the most positive people I have ever met. That is one of the things that attracted me to her. She never complained about anything. Everything I did was wonderful, but once we were married, it seemed I could do nothing right. I honestly don’t know what happened. Eventually, I lost my love for her and began to resent her. She obviously had no love for me. We agreed there was no benefit to our living together any longer, so we split. “That was a year ago. So my question is, What happens to love after the wedding? Is my experience common? Is that why we have so many divorces in our country? I can’t believe that it happened to me three times. And those who don’t divorce, do they learn to live with the emptiness, or does love really stay alive in some marriages? If so, how?” The questions my friend seated in 5A was asking are the questions that thousands of married and divorced persons are asking today. Some are asking friends, some are asking counselors and clergy, and some are asking themselves. Sometimes the answers are couched in psychological research jargon that is almost incomprehensible. Sometimes they are couched in humor and folklore. Most of the jokes and pithy sayings contain some truth, but they are like offering an aspirin to a person with cancer. The desire for romantic love in marriage is deeply rooted in our psychological makeup. Almost every popular magazine has at least one article each issue on keeping love alive in a marriage. Books abound on the subject. Television and radio talk shows deal with it. Keeping love alive in our marriages is serious business. With all the books, magazines, and practical help available, why is it that so few couples seem to have found the secret to keeping love alive after the wedding? Why is it that a couple can attend a communication workshop, hear wonderful ideas on how to enhance communication, return home, and find themselves totally unable to implement the communication patterns demonstrated? How is it that we read a magazine article on “101 Ways to Express Love to Your Spouse,” select two or three ways that seem especially good to us, try them, and our spouse doesn’t even acknowledge our effort? We give up on the other 98 ways and go back to life as usual. We must be willing to learn our spouse’s primary love language if we are to be effective communicators of love. The answer to those questions is the purpose of this book. It is not that the books and articles already published are not helpful. The problem is that we have overlooked one fundamental truth: People speak different love languages. In the area of linguistics, there are major language groups: Japanese, Chinese, Spanish, English, Portuguese, Greek, German, French, and so on. Most of us grow up learning the language of our parents and siblings, which becomes our primary or native tongue. Later, we may learn additional languages but usually with much more effort. These become our secondary languages. We speak and understand best our native language. We feel most comfortable speaking that language. The more we use a secondary language, the more comfortable we become conversing in it. If we speak only our primary language and encounter someone else who speaks only his or her primary language, which is different from ours, our communication will be limited. We must rely on pointing, grunting, drawing pictures, or acting out our ideas. We can communicate, but it is awkward. Language differences are part and parcel of human culture. If we are to communicate effectively across cultural lines, we must learn the language of those with whom we wish to communicate. In the area of love, it is similar. Your emotional love language and the language of your spouse may be as different as Chinese from English. No matter how hard you try to express love in English, if your spouse understands only Chinese, you will never understand how to love each other. My friend on the plane was speaking the language of “Affirming Words” to his third wife when he said, “I told her how beautiful she was. I told her I loved her. I told her how proud I was to be her husband.” He was speaking love, and he was sincere, but she did not understand his language. Perhaps she was looking for love in his behavior and didn’t see it. Being sincere is not enough. We must be willing to learn our spouse’s primary love language if we are to be effective communicators of love. My conclusion after thirty years of marriage counseling is that there are basically five emotional love languages—five ways that people speak and understand emotional love. In the field of linguistics a language may have numerous dialects or variations. Similarly, within the five basic emotional love languages, there are many dialects. That accounts for the magazine articles titled “10 Ways to Let Your Spouse Know You Love Her,” “20 Ways to Keep Your Man at Home,” or “365 Expressions of Marital Love.” There are not 10, 20, or 365 basic love languages. In my opinion, there are only five. However, there may be numerous dialects. The number of ways to express love within a love language is limited only by one’s imagination. The important thing is to speak the love language of your spouse. We have long known that in early childhood development each child develops unique emotional patterns. Some children, for example, develop a pattern of low self-esteem whereas others have healthy self-esteem. Some develop emotional patterns of insecurity whereas others grow up feeling secure. Some children grow up feeling loved, wanted, and appreciated, yet others grow up feeling unloved, unwanted, and unappreciated. The children who feel loved by their parents and peers will develop a primary emotional love language based on their unique psychological makeup and the way their parents and other significant persons expressed love to them. They will speak and understand one primary love language. They may later learn a secondary love language, but they will always feel most comfortable with their primary language. Children who do not feel loved by their parents and peers will also develop a primary love language. However, it will be somewhat distorted in much the same way as some children may learn poor grammar and have an underdeveloped vocabulary. That poor programming does not mean they cannot become good communicators. But it does mean they will have to work at it more diligently than those who had a more positive model. Likewise, children who grow up with an underdeveloped sense of emotional love can also come to feel loved and to communicate love, but they will have to work at it more diligently than those who grew up in a healthy, loving atmosphere. Seldom do a husband and wife have the same primary emotional love language. We tend to speak our primary love language, and we become confused when our spouse does not understand what we are communicating. We are expressing our love, but the message does not come through because we are speaking what, to them, is a foreign language. Therein lies the fundamental problem, and it is the purpose of this book to offer a solution. That is why I dare to write another book on love. Once we discover the five basic love languages and understand our own primary love language, as well as the primary love language of our spouse, we will then have the needed information to apply the ideas in the books and articles. Once you identify and learn to speak your spouse’s primary love language, I believe that you will have discovered the key to a long-lasting, loving marriage. Love need not evaporate after the wedding, but in order to keep it alive most of us will have to put forth the effort to learn a secondary love language. We cannot rely on our native tongue if our spouse does not understand it. If we want him/her to feel the love we are trying to communicate, we must express it in his or her primary love language. OceanofPDF.com OceanofPDF.com chapter two OceanofPDF.com KEEPING THE LOVE TANK FULL Love is the most important word in the English language—and the most confusing. Both secular and religious thinkers agree that love plays a central role in life. We are told that “love is a many-splendored thing” and that “love makes the world go round.” Thousands of books, songs, magazines, and movies are peppered with the word. Numerous philosophical and theological systems have made a prominent place for love. And the founder of the Christian faith wanted love to be the distinguishing characteristic of His followers.1 Psychologists have concluded that the need to feel loved is a primary human emotional need. For love, we will climb mountains, cross seas, traverse desert sands, and endure untold hardships. Without love, mountains become unclimbable, seas uncrossable, deserts unbearable, and hardships our plight in life. The Christian apostle to the Gentiles, Paul, exalted love when he indicated that all human accomplishments that are not motivated by love are, in the end, empty. He concluded that in the last scene of the human drama, only three characters will remain: “faith, hope and love. But the greatest of these is love.”2 If we can agree that the word love permeates human society, both historically and in the present, we must also agree that it is a most confusing word. We use it in a thousand ways. We say, “I love hot dogs,” and in the next breath, “I love my mother.” We speak of loving activities: swimming, skiing, hunting. We love objects: food, cars, houses. We love animals: dogs, cats, even pet snails. We love nature: trees, grass, flowers, and weather. We love people: mother, father, son, daughter, parents, wives, husbands, friends. We even fall in love with love. If all that is not confusing enough, we also use the word love to explain behavior. “I did it because I love her.” That explanation is given for all kinds of actions. A man is involved in an adulterous relationship, and he calls it love. The preacher, on the other hand, calls it sin. The wife of an alcoholic picks up the pieces after her husband’s latest episode. She calls it love, but the psychologist calls it codependency. The parent indulges all the child’s wishes, calling it love. The family therapist would call it irresponsible parenting. What is loving behavior? The purpose of this book is not to eliminate all confusion surrounding the word love, but to focus on that kind of love that is essential to our emotional health. Child psychologists affirm that every child has certain basic emotional needs that must be met if he is to be emotionally stable. Among those emotional needs, none is more basic than the need for love and affection, the need to sense that he or she belongs and is wanted. With an adequate supply of affection, the child will likely develop into a responsible adult. Without that love, he or she will be emotionally and socially retarded. I liked the metaphor the first time I heard it: “Inside every child is an ‘emotional tank’ waiting to be filled with love. When a child really feels loved, he will develop normally but when the love tank is empty, the child will misbehave. Much of the misbehavior of children is motivated by the cravings of an empty ‘love tank.’” I was listening to Dr. Ross Campbell, a psychiatrist who specializes in the treatment of children and adolescents. As I listened, I thought of the hundreds of parents who had paraded the misdeeds of their children through my office. I had never visualized an empty love tank inside those children, but I had certainly seen the results of it. Their misbehavior was a misguided search for the love they did not feel. They were seeking love in all the wrong places and in all the wrong ways. I remember Ashley, who at thirteen years of age was being treated for a sexually transmitted disease. Her parents were crushed. They were angry with Ashley. They were upset with the school, which they blamed for teaching her about sex. “Why would she do this?” they asked. At the heart of mankind’s existence is the desire to be intimate and to be loved by another. Marriage is designed to meet that need for intimacy and love. In my conversation with Ashley, she told me of her parents’ divorce when she was six years old. “I thought my father left because he didn’t love me,” she said. “When my mother remarried when I was ten, I felt she now had someone to love her, but I still had no one to love me. I wanted so much to be loved. I met this boy at school. He was older than me, but he liked me. I couldn’t believe it. He was kind to me, and in a while I really felt he loved me. I didn’t want to have sex, but I wanted to be loved.” Ashley’s “love tank” had been empty for many years. Her mother and stepfather had provided for her physical needs but had not realized the deep emotional struggle raging inside her. They certainly loved Ashley, and they thought that she felt their love. Not until it was almost too late did they discover that they were not speaking Ashley’s primary love language. The emotional need for love, however, is not simply a childhood phenomenon. That need follows us into adulthood and into marriage. The “in love” experience temporarily meets that need, but it is inevitably a “quick fix” and, as we shall learn later, has a limited and predictable life span. After we come down from the high of the “in love” obsession, the emotional need for love resurfaces because it is fundamental to our nature. It is at the center of our emotional desires. We needed love before we “fell in love,” and we will need it as long as we live. The need to feel loved by one’s spouse is at the heart of marital desires. A man said to me recently, “What good is the house, the cars, the place at the beach, or any of the rest of it if your wife doesn’t love you?” Do you understand what he was really saying? “More than anything, I want to be loved by my wife.” Material things are no replacement for human, emotional love. A wife says, “He ignores me all day long and then wants to jump in bed with me. I hate it.” She is not a wife who hates sex; she is a wife desperately pleading for emotional love. Something in our nature cries out to be loved by another. Isolation is devastating to the human psyche. That is why solitary confinement is considered the cruelest of punishments. At the heart of mankind’s existence is the desire to be intimate and to be loved by another. Marriage is designed to meet that need for intimacy and love. That is why the ancient biblical writings spoke of the husband and wife becoming “one flesh.” That did not mean that individuals would lose their identity; it meant that they would enter into each other’s lives in a deep and intimate way. The New Testament writers challenged both the husband and the wife to love each other. From Plato to Peck, writers have emphasized the importance of love in marriage. But, if love is important, it is also elusive. I have listened to many married couples share their secret pain. Some came to me because the inner ache had become unbearable. Others came because they realized that their behavior patterns or the misbehavior of their spouse was destroying the marriage. Some came simply to inform me that they no longer wanted to be married. Their dreams of “living happily ever after” had been dashed against the hard walls of reality. Again and again I have heard the words “Our love is gone, our relationship is dead. We used to feel close, but not now. We no longer enjoy being with each other. We don’t meet each other’s needs.” Their stories bear testimony that adults as well as children have “love tanks.” Could it be that deep inside hurting couples exists an invisible “emotional love tank” with its gauge on empty? Could the misbehavior, withdrawal, harsh words, and critical spirit occur because of that empty tank? If we could find a way to fill it, could the marriage be reborn? With a full tank would couples be able to create an emotional climate where it is possible to discuss differences and resolve conflicts? Could that tank be the key that makes marriage work? Those questions sent me on a long journey. Along the way, I discovered the simple yet powerful insights contained in this book. The journey has taken me not only through thirty years of marriage counseling but into the hearts and minds of hundreds of couples throughout America. From Seattle to Miami, couples have invited me into the inner chamber of their marriages, and we have talked openly. The illustrations included in this book are cut from the fabric of real life. Only names and places are changed to protect the privacy of the individuals who have spoken so freely. I am convinced that keeping the emotional love tank full is as important to a marriage as maintaining the proper oil level is to an automobile. Running your marriage on an empty “love tank” may cost you even more than trying to drive your car without oil. What you are about to read has the potential of saving thousands of marriages and can even enhance the emotional climate of a good marriage. Whatever the quality of your marriage now, it can always be better. WARNING: Understanding the five love languages and learning to speak the primary love language of your spouse may radically affect his or her behavior. People behave differently when their emotional love tanks are full. Before we examine the five love languages, however, we must address one other important but confusing phenomenon: the euphoric experience of “falling in love.” NOTES 1. John 13:35. 2. 1 Corinthians 13:13. OceanofPDF.com OceanofPDF.com chapter three OceanofPDF.com FALLING IN LOVE She showed up at my office without an appointment and asked my secretary if she could see me for five minutes. I had known Janice for eighteen years. She was thirty-six and had never married. She had dated several men through the years, one for six years, another for three years, and several others for shorter periods of time. From time to time, she had made appointments with me to discuss a particular difficulty in one of her relationships. She was by nature a disciplined, conscientious, organized, thoughtful, and caring person. It was completely out of character for her to show up at my office unannounced. I thought, There must be some terrible crisis for Janice to show up without an appointment. I told my secretary to show her in, and I fully expected to see her burst into tears and tell me some tragic story as soon as the door was closed. Instead, she virtually skipped into my office, beaming with excitement. “How are you today, Janice?” I asked. “Great!” she said. “I’ve never been better in my life. I’m getting married!” “You are?” I said, revealing my shock. “To whom and when?” “To David Gallespie,” she exclaimed, “in September.” “That’s exciting. How long have you been dating?” “Three weeks. I know it’s crazy, Dr. Chapman, after all the people I have dated and the number of times I came so close to getting married. I can’t believe it myself, but I know David is the one for me. From the first date, we both knew it. Of course, we didn’t talk about it on the first night, but one week later, he asked me to marry him. I knew he was going to ask me, and I knew I was going to say yes. I have never felt this way before, Dr. Chapman. You know about the relationships that I have had through the years and the struggles I have had. In every relationship, something was not right. I never felt at peace about marrying any of them, but I know that David is the right one.” By this time, Janice was rocking back and forth in her chair, giggling and saying, “I know it’s crazy, but I am so happy. I have never been this happy in my life.” What has happened to Janice? She has fallen in love. In her mind, David is the most wonderful man she has ever met. He is perfect in every way. He will make the ideal husband. She thinks about him day and night. The facts that David has been married twice before, has three children, and has had three jobs in the past year are trivial to Janice. She’s happy, and she is convinced that she is going to be happy forever with David. She is in love. Most of us enter marriage by way of the “in love” experience. We meet someone whose physical characteristics and personality traits create enough electrical shock to trigger our “love alert” system. The bells go off, and we set in motion the process of getting to know the person. The first step may be sharing a hamburger or steak, depending on our budget, but our real interest is not in the food. We are on a quest to discover love. “Could this warm, tingly feeling I have inside be the ‘real’ thing?” Sometimes we lose the tingles on the first date. We find out that she dips snuff, and the tingles run right out our toes; we want no more hamburgers with her. Other times, however, the tingles are stronger after the hamburger than before. We arrange for a few more “together” experiences, and before long the level of intensity has increased to the point where we find ourselves saying, “I think I’m falling in love.” Eventually we are convinced that it is the “real thing,” and we tell the other person, hoping the feeling is reciprocal. If it isn’t, things cool off a bit or we redouble our efforts to impress, and eventually win the love of, our beloved. When it is reciprocal, we start talking about marriage because everyone agrees that being “in love” is the necessary foundation for a good marriage. Our dreams before marriage are of marital bliss…. It’s hard to believe anything else when you are in love. At its peak, the “in love” experience is euphoric. We are emotionally obsessed with each other. We go to sleep thinking of one another. When we rise that person is the first thought on our minds. We long to be together. Spending time together is like playing in the anteroom of heaven. When we hold hands, it seems as if our blood flows together. We could kiss forever if we didn’t have to go to school or work. Embracing stimulates dreams of marriage and ecstasy. The person who is “in love” has the illusion that his beloved is perfect. His mother can see the flaws but he can’t. His mother says, “Darling, have you considered she has been under psychiatric care for five years?” But he replies, “Oh, Mother, give me a break. She’s been out for three months now.” His friends also can see the flaws but are not likely to tell him unless he asks, and chances are he won’t because in his mind she is perfect and what others think doesn’t matter. Our dreams before marriage are of marital bliss: “We are going to make each other supremely happy. Other couples may argue and fight, but not us. We love each other.” Of course, we are not totally naive. We know intellectually that we will eventually have differences. But we are certain that we will discuss those differences openly; one of us will always be willing to make concessions, and we will reach agreement. It’s hard to believe anything else when you are in love. We have been led to believe that if we are really in love, it will last forever. We will always have the wonderful feelings that we have at this moment. Nothing could ever come between us. Nothing will ever overcome our love for each other. We are enamored and caught up in the beauty and charm of the other’s personality. Our love is the most wonderful thing we have ever experienced. We observe that some married couples seem to have lost that feeling, but it will never happen to us. “Maybe they did not have the real thing,” we reason. Unfortunately, the eternality of the “in love” experience is fiction, not fact. Dr. Dorothy Tennov, a psychologist, has done long-range studies on the in-love phenomenon. After studying scores of couples, she concluded that the average life span of a romantic obsession is two years. If it is a secretive love affair, it may last a little longer. Eventually, however, we all descend from the clouds and plant our feet on earth again. Our eyes are opened, and we see the warts of the other person. We recognize that some of his/her personality traits are actually irritating. Her behavior patterns are annoying. He has the capacity for hurt and anger, perhaps even harsh words and critical judgments. Those little traits that we overlooked when we were in love now become huge mountains. We remember Mother’s words and ask ourselves, How could I have been so foolish? Welcome to the real world of marriage, where hairs are always on the sink and little white spots cover the mirror, where arguments center on which way the toilet paper comes off and whether the lid should be up or down. It is a world where shoes do not walk to the closet and drawers do not close themselves, where coats do not like hangers and socks go AWOL during laundry. In this world, a look can hurt and a word can crush. Intimate lovers can become enemies, and marriage a battlefield. What happened to the “in love” experience? Alas, it was but an illusion by which we were tricked into signing our names on the dotted line, for better or for worse. No wonder so many have come to curse marriage and the partner whom they once loved. After all, if we were deceived, we have a right to be angry. Did we really have the “real” thing? I think so. The problem was faulty information. The bad information was the idea that the “in love” obsession would last forever. We should have known better. A casual observation should have taught us that if people remained obsessed, we would all be in serious trouble. The shock waves would rumble through business, industry, church, education, and the rest of society. Why? Because people who are “in love” lose interest in other pursuits. That is why we call it “obsession.” The college student who falls head over heels in love sees his grades tumbling. It is difficult to study when you are in love. Tomorrow you have a test on the War of 1812, but who cares about the War of 1812? When you’re in love, everything else seems irrelevant. A man said to me, “Dr. Chapman, my job is disintegrating.” “What do you mean?” I asked. “I met this girl, fell in love, and I can’t get a thing done. I can’t keep my mind on my job. I spend my day dreaming about her.” The euphoria of the “in love” state gives us the illusion that we have an intimate relationship. We feel that we belong to each other. We believe we can conquer all problems. We feel altruistic toward each other. As one young man said about his fiancée, “I can’t conceive of doing anything to hurt her. My only desire is to make her happy. I would do anything to make her happy.” Such obsession gives us the false sense that our egocentric attitudes have been eradicated and we have become sort of a Mother Teresa, willing to give anything for the benefit of our lover. The reason we can do that so freely is that we sincerely believe that our lover feels the same way toward us. We believe that she is committed to meeting our needs, that he loves us as much as we love him and would never do anything to hurt us. That thinking is always fanciful. Not that we are insincere in what we think and feel, but we are unrealistic. We fail to reckon with the reality of human nature. By nature, we are egocentric. Our world revolves around us. None of us is totally altruistic. The euphoria of the “in love” experience only gives us that illusion. Once the experience of falling in love has run its natural course (remember, the average in-love experience lasts two years), we will return to the world of reality and begin to assert ourselves. He will express his desires, but his desires will be different from hers. He desires sex, but she is too tired. He wants to buy a new car, but she says, “That’s absurd!” She wants to visit her parents, but he says, “I don’t like spending so much time with your family.” He wants to play in the softball tournament, and she says, “You love softball more than you love me.” Little by little, the illusion of intimacy evaporates, and the individual desires, emotions, thoughts, and behavior patterns exert themselves. They are two individuals. Their minds have not melded together, and their emotions mingled only briefly in the ocean of love. Now the waves of reality begin to separate them. They fall out of love, and at that point either they withdraw, separate, divorce, and set off in search of a new in-love experience, or they begin the hard work of learning to love each other without the euphoria of the in-love obsession. The in-love experience does not focus on our own growth nor on the growth and development of the other person. Rather, it gives us the sense that we have arrived. Some researchers, among them psychiatrist M. Scott Peck and psychologist Dorothy Tennov, have concluded that the in-love experience should not be called “love” at all. Dr. Tennov coined the word limerance for the in-love experience in order to distinguish that experience from what she considers real love. Dr. Peck concludes that the falling-in-love experience is not real love for three reasons. First, falling in love is not an act of the will or a conscious choice. No matter how much we may want to fall in love, we cannot make it happen. On the other hand, we may not be seeking the experience when it overtakes us. Often, we fall in love at inopportune times and with unlikely people. Second, falling in love is not real love because it is effortless. Whatever we do in the in-love state requires little discipline or conscious effort on our part. The long, expensive phone calls we make to each other, the money we spend traveling to see each other, the gifts we give, the work projects we do are as nothing to us. As the instinctual nature of the bird dictates the building of a nest, so the instinctual nature of the in-love experience pushes us to do outlandish and unnatural things for each other. Third, one who is “in love” is not genuinely interested in fostering the personal growth of the other person. “If we have any purpose in mind when we fall in love it is to terminate our own loneliness and perhaps ensure this result through marriage.”1 The in-love experience does not focus on our own growth nor on the growth and development of the other person. Rather, it gives us the sense that we have arrived and that we do not need further growth. We are at the apex of life’s happiness, and our only desire is to stay there. Certainly our beloved does not need to grow because she is perfect. We simply hope she will remain perfect. If falling in love is not real love, what is it? Dr. Peck concludes that it “is a genetically determined instinctual component of mating behavior. In other words, the temporary collapse of ego boundaries that constitutes falling in love is a stereotypic response of human beings to a configuration of internal sexual drives and external sexual stimuli, which serves to increase the probability of sexual pairing and bonding so as to enhance the survival of the species.”2 Whether or not we agree with that conclusion, those of us who have fallen in love and out of love will likely agree that the experience does catapult us into emotional orbit unlike anything else we have experienced. It tends to disengage our reasoning abilities, and we often find ourselves doing and saying things that we would never have done in more sober moments. In fact, when we come down from the emotional obsession we often wonder why we did those things. When the wave of emotions subsides and we come back to the real world where our differences are illuminated, how many of us have asked, “Why did we get married? We don’t agree on anything.” Yet, at the height of the in-loveness, we thought we agreed on everything—at least everything that was important. Rational, volitional love…is the kind of love to which the sages have always called us. Does that mean that having been tricked into marriage by the illusion of being in love, we are now faced with two options: (1) we are destined to a life of misery with our spouse, or (2) we must jump ship and try again? Our generation has opted for the latter, whereas an earlier generation often chose the former. Before we automatically conclude that we have made the better choice, perhaps we should examine the data. Presently 40 percent of first marriages in this country end in divorce. Sixty percent of second marriages and 75 percent of third marriages end the same way. Apparently the prospect of a happier marriage the second and third time around is not substantial. Research seems to indicate that there is a third and better alternative: We can recognize the in-love experience for what it was—a temporary emotional high—and now pursue “real love” with our spouse. That kind of love is emotional in nature but not obsessional. It is a love that unites reason and emotion. It involves an act of the will and requires discipline, and it recognizes the need for personal growth. Our most basic emotional need is not to fall in love but to be genuinely loved by another, to know a love that grows out of reason and choice, not instinct. I need to be loved by someone who chooses to love me, who sees in me something worth loving. That kind of love requires effort and discipline. It is the choice to expend energy in an effort to benefit the other person, knowing that if his or her life is enriched by your effort, you too will find a sense of satisfaction—the satisfaction of having genuinely loved another. It does not require the euphoria of the “in love” experience. In fact, true love cannot begin until the “in love” experience has run its course. We cannot take credit for the kind and generous things we do while under the influence of “the obsession.” We are pushed and carried along by an instinctual force that goes beyond our normal behavior patterns. But if, once we return to the real world of human choice, we choose to be kind and generous, that is real love. The emotional need for love must be met if we are to have emotional health. Married adults long to feel affection and love from their spouses. We feel secure when we are assured that our mate accepts us, wants us, and is committed to our well-being. During the in-love stage, we felt all of those emotions. It was heavenly while it lasted. Our mistake was in thinking it would last forever. But that obsession was not meant to last forever. In the textbook of marriage, it is but the introduction. The heart of the book is rational, volitional love. That is the kind of love to which the sages have always called us. It is intentional. That is good news to the married couple who have lost all of their “in love” feelings. If love is a choice, then they have the capacity to love after the “in love” obsession has died and they have returned to the real world. That kind of love begins with an attitude—a way of thinking. Love is the attitude that says, “I am married to you, and I choose to look out for your interests.” Then the one who chooses to love will find appropriate ways to express that decision. “But it seems so sterile,” some may contend. “Love as an attitude with appropriate behavior? Where are the shooting stars, the balloons, the deep emotions? What about the spirit of anticipation, the twinkle of the eye, the electricity of a kiss, the excitement of sex? What about the emotional security of knowing that I am number one in his/her mind?” That is what this book is all about. How do we meet each other’s deep, emotional need to feel loved? If we can learn that and choose to do it, then the love we share will be exciting beyond anything we ever felt when we were infatuated. For many years now, I have discussed the five emotional love languages in my marriage seminars and in private counseling sessions. Thousands of couples will attest to the validity of what you are about to read. My files are filled with letters from people whom I have never met, saying, “A friend loaned me one of your tapes on love languages, and it has revolutionized our marriage. We had struggled for years trying to love each other, but our efforts had missed each other emotionally. Now that we are speaking the appropriate love languages, the emotional climate of our marriage has radically improved.” When your spouse’s emotional love tank is full and he feels secure in your love, the whole world looks bright and your spouse will move out to reach his highest potential in life. But when the love tank is empty and he feels used but not loved, the whole world looks dark and he will likely never reach his potential for good in the world. In the next five chapters, I will explain the five emotional love languages and then, in chapter 9, illustrate how discovering your spouse’s primary love language can make your efforts at love most productive. NOTES 1. M. Scott Peck, The Road Less Traveled(New York: Simon & Schuster, 1978), pp. 89–90. 2. Ibid., p. 90. OceanofPDF.com OceanofPDF.com chapter four OceanofPDF.com Love Language #1 WORDS OF AFFIRMATION Mark Twain once said, “I can live for two months on a good compliment.” If we take Twain literally, six compliments a year would have kept his emotional love tank at the operational level. Your spouse will probably need more. One way to express love emotionally is to use words that build up. Solomon, author of the ancient Hebrew wisdom literature, wrote, “The tongue has the power of life and death.”1 Many couples have never learned the tremendous power of verbally affirming each other. Solomon further noted, “An anxious heart weighs a man down, but a kind word cheers him up.”2 Verbal compliments, or words of appreciation, are powerful communicators of love. They are best expressed in simple, straightforward statements of affirmation, such as: “You look sharp in that suit.” “Do you ever look nice in that dress! Wow!” “You must be the best potato cook in the world. I love these potatoes.” “I really appreciate your washing the dishes tonight.” “Thanks for getting the baby-sitter lined up tonight. I want you to know I don’t take that for granted.” “I really appreciate your taking the garbage out.” What would happen to the emotional climate of a marriage if the husband and wife heard such words of affirmation regularly? Several years ago, I was sitting in my office with my door open. A lady walking down the hall said, “Have you got a minute?” “Sure, come in.” She sat down and said, “Dr. Chapman, I’ve got a problem. I can’t get my husband to paint our bedroom. I have been after him for nine months. I have tried everything I know, and I can’t get him to paint it.” My first thought was, Lady, you are at the wrong place. I am not a paint contractor. But I said, “Tell me about it.” She said, “Well, last Saturday was a good example. You remember how pretty it was? Do you know what my husband did all day long? He washed and waxed the car.” “So what did you do?” “I went out there and said, ‘Bob, I don’t understand you. Today would have been a perfect day to paint the bedroom, and here you are washing and waxing the car.’” “So did he paint the bedroom?” I inquired. “No. It’s still not painted. I don’t know what to do.” “Let me ask you a question,” I said. “Are you opposed to clean, waxed cars?” “No, but I want the bedroom painted.” “Are you certain that your husband knows that you want the bedroom painted?” “I know he does,” she said. “I have been after him for nine months.” “Let me ask you one more question. Does your husband ever do anything good?” “Like what?” “Oh, like taking the garbage out, or getting bugs off the windshield of the car you drive, or putting gas in the car, or paying the electric bill, or hanging up his coat?” “Yes,” she said, “he does some of those things.” “Then I have two suggestions. One, don’t ever mention painting the bedroom again.” I repeated, “Don’t ever mention it again.” “I don’t see how that’s going to help,” she said. The object of love is not getting something you want but doing something for the well-being of the one you love. It is a fact, however, that when we receive affirming words we are far more likely to be motivated to reciprocate. “Look, you just told me that he knows that you want the bedroom painted. You don’t have to tell him anymore. He already knows. The second suggestion I have is that the next time your husband does anything good, give him a verbal compliment. If he takes the garbage out, say, ‘Bob, I want you to know that I really appreciate your taking the garbage out.’ Don’t say, ‘About time you took the garbage out. The flies were going to carry it out for you.’ If you see him paying the electric bill, put your hand on his shoulder and say, ‘Bob, I really appreciate your paying the electric bill. I hear there are husbands who don’t do that, and I want you to know how much I appreciate it.’ Every time he does anything good, give him a verbal compliment.” “I don’t see how that’s going to get the bedroom painted.” I said, “You asked for my advice. You have it. It’s free.” She wasn’t very happy with me when she left. Three weeks later, however, she came back to my office and said, “It worked!” She had learned that verbal compliments are far greater motivators than nagging words. I am not suggesting verbal flattery in order to get your spouse to do something you want. The object of love is not getting something you want but doing something for the well-being of the one you love. It is a fact, however, that when we receive affirming words we are far more likely to be motivated to reciprocate and do something our spouse desires. ENCOURAGING WORDS Giving verbal compliments is only one way to express words of affirmation to your spouse. Another dialect is encouraging words. The word encourage means “to inspire courage.” All of us have areas in which we feel insecure. We lack courage, and that lack of courage often hinders us from accomplishing the positive things that we would like to do. The latent potential within your spouse in his or her areas of insecurity may await your encouraging words. Allison had always liked to write. Late in her college career, she took a few courses in journalism. She quickly realized that her excitement about writing exceeded her interest in history, which had been her academic major. It was too late to change majors, but after college and especially before the first baby, she wrote several articles. She submitted one article to a magazine, but when she received a rejection slip, she never had the courage to submit another. Now that the children were older and she had more time to contemplate, Allison was again writing. Keith, Allison’s husband, had paid little attention to Allison’s writing in the early days of their marriage. He was busy with his own vocation and caught up in the pressure of climbing the corporate ladder. In time, however, Keith had realized that life’s deepest meaning is not found in accomplishments but in relationships. He had learned to give more attention to Allison and her interests. So it was quite natural one night for him to pick up one of Allison’s articles and read it. When he finished, he went into the den where Allison was reading a book. With great enthusiasm, he said, “I hate to interrupt your reading, but I have to tell you this. I just finished reading your article on ‘Making the Most of the Holidays.’ Allison, you are an excellent writer. This stuff ought to be published! You write clearly. Your words paint pictures that I can visualize. You have a fascinating style. You have to submit this stuff to some magazines.” “Do you really think so?” Allison asked hesitantly. “I know so,” Keith said. “I’m telling you, this is good.” When Keith left the room, Allison did not resume her reading. With the closed book in her lap, she dreamed for thirty minutes about what Keith had said. She wondered if others would view her writing the same way he did. She remembered the rejection slip she had received years ago, but she reasoned that she was a different person now. Her writing was better. She had had more experiences. Before she left the chair to get a drink of water, Allison had made a decision. She would submit her articles to some magazines. She would see if they could be published. Keith’s encouraging words were spoken fourteen years ago. Allison has had numerous articles published since then and now has a book contract. She is an excellent writer, but it took the encouraging words from her husband to inspire her to take the first step in the arduous process of getting an article published. Perhaps your spouse has untapped potential in one or more areas of life. That potential may be awaiting your encouraging words. Perhaps she needs to enroll in a course to develop that potential. Maybe he needs to meet some people who have succeeded in that area, who can give him insight on the next step he needs to take. Your words may give your spouse the courage necessary to take that first step. Please note that I am not talking about pressuring your spouse to do something that you want. I am talking about encouraging him to develop an interest that he already has. For example, some husbands pressure their wives to lose weight. The husband says, “I am encouraging her,” but to the wife it sounds like condemnation. Only when a person wants to lose weight can you give her encouragement. Until she has the desire, your words will fall into the category of preaching. Such words seldom encourage. They are almost always heard as words of judgment, designed to stimulate guilt. They express not love but rejection. Encouragement requires empathy and seeing the world from your spouse’s perspective. We must first learn what is important to our spouse. If, however, your spouse says, “I think I would like to enroll in a weight-loss program this fall,” then you have opportunity to give words of encouragement. Encouraging words would sound like this. “If you decide to do that, I can tell you one thing. You will be a success. That’s one of the things I like about you. When you set your mind to something, you do it. If that’s what you want to do, I will certainly do everything I can to help you. And don’t worry about the cost of the program. If it’s what you want to do, we’ll find the money.” Such words may give your spouse the courage to phone the weight-loss center. Encouragement requires empathy and seeing the world from your spouse’s perspective. We must first learn what is important to our spouse. Only then can we give encouragement. With verbal encouragement, we are trying to communicate, “I know. I care. I am with you. How can I help?” We are trying to show that we believe in him and in his abilities. We are giving credit and praise. Most of us have more potential than we will ever develop. What holds us back is often courage. A loving spouse can supply that all-important catalyst. Of course, encouraging words may be difficult for you to speak. It may not be your primary love language. It may take great effort for you to learn this second language. That will be especially true if you have a pattern of critical and condemning words, but I can assure you that it will be worth the effort. KIND WORDS Love is kind. If then we are to communicate love verbally, we must use kind words. That has to do with the way we speak. The same sentence can have two different meanings, depending on how you say it. The statement “I love you,” when said with kindness and tenderness, can be a genuine expression of love. But what about the statement “I love you?” The question mark changes the whole meaning of those three words. Sometimes our words are saying one thing, but our tone of voice is saying another. We are sending double messages. Our spouse will usually interpret our message based on our tone of voice, not the words we use. “I would be delighted to wash dishes tonight,” said in a snarling tone will not be received as an expression of love. On the other hand, we can share hurt, pain, and even anger in a kind manner, and that will be an expression of love. “I felt disappointed and hurt that you didn’t offer to help me this evening,” said in an honest, kind manner can be an expression of love. The person speaking wants to be known by her spouse. She is taking steps to build intimacy by sharing her feelings. She is asking for an opportunity to discuss a hurt in order to find healing. The same words expressed with a loud, harsh voice will be not an expression of love but an expression of condemnation and judgment. The manner in which we speak is exceedingly important. An ancient sage once said, “A soft answer turns away anger.” When your spouse is angry and upset and lashing out words of heat, if you choose to be loving you will not reciprocate with additional heat but with a soft voice. You will receive what he is saying as information about his emotional feelings. You will let him tell you of his hurt, anger, and perception of events. You will seek to put yourself in his shoes and see the event through his eyes and then express softly and kindly your understanding of why he feels that way. If you have wronged him, you will be willing to confess the wrong and ask forgiveness. If your motivation is different from what he is reading, you will be able to explain your motivation kindly. You will seek understanding and reconciliation, and not to prove your own perception as the only logical way to interpret what has happened. That is mature love—love to which we aspire if we seek a growing marriage. Love doesn’t keep a score of wrongs. Love doesn’t bring up past failures. None of us is perfect. In marriage we do not always do the best or right thing. We have sometimes done and said hurtful things to our spouses. We cannot erase the past. We can only confess it and agree that it was wrong. We can ask for forgiveness and try to act differently in the future. Having confessed my failure and asked forgiveness, I can do nothing more to mitigate the hurt it may have caused my spouse. When I have been wronged by my spouse and she has painfully confessed it and requested forgiveness, I have the option of justice or forgiveness. If I choose justice and seek to pay her back or make her pay for her wrongdoing, I am making myself the judge and her the felon. Intimacy becomes impossible. If, however, I choose to forgive, intimacy can be restored. Forgiveness is the way of love. I am amazed by how many individuals mess up every new day with yesterday. They insist on bringing into today the failures of yesterday and in so doing, they pollute a potentially wonderful day. “I can’t believe you did it. I don’t think I’ll ever forget it. You can’t possibly know how much you hurt me. I don’t know how you can sit there so smugly after you treated me that way. You ought to be crawling on your knees, begging me for forgiveness. I don’t know if I can ever forgive you.” Those are not the words of love but of bitterness and resentment and revenge. If we are to develop an intimate relationship, we need to know each other’s desires. If we wish to love each other, we need to know what the other person wants. The best thing we can do with the failures of the past is to let them be history. Yes, it happened. Certainly it hurt. And it may still hurt, but he has acknowledged his failure and asked your forgiveness. We cannot erase the past, but we can accept it as history. We can choose to live today free from the failures of yesterday. Forgiveness is not a feeling; it is a commitment. It is a choice to show mercy, not to hold the offense up against the offender. Forgiveness is an expression of love. “I love you. I care about you, and I choose to forgive you. Even though my feelings of hurt may linger, I will not allow what has happened to come between us. I hope that we can learn from this experience. You are not a failure because you have failed. You are my spouse, and together we will go on from here.” Those are the words of affirmation expressed in the dialect of kind words. HUMBLE WORDS Love makes requests, not demands. When I demand things from my spouse, I become a parent and she the child. It is the parent who tells the three-year-old what he ought to do and, in fact, what he must do. That is necessary because the three-year-old does not yet know how to navigate in the treacherous waters of life. In marriage, however, we are equal, adult partners. We are not perfect to be sure, but we are adults and we are partners. If we are to develop an intimate relationship, we need to know each other’s desires. If we wish to love each other, we need to know what the other person wants. The way we express those desires, however, is all-important. If they come across as demands, we have erased the possibility of intimacy and will drive our spouse away. If, however, we make known our needs and desires as requests, we are giving guidance, not ultimatums. The husband who says, “You know those apple pies you make? Would it be possible for you to make one this week? I love those apple pies,” is giving his wife guidance on how to love him and thus build intimacy. On the other hand, the husband who says, “Haven’t had an apple pie since the baby was born. Don’t guess I’ll get any more apple pies for eighteen years,” has ceased being an adult and has reverted to adolescent behavior. Such demands do not build intimacy. The wife who says, “Do you think it will be possible for you to clean the gutters this weekend?” is expressing love by making a request. But the wife who says, “If you don’t get those gutters cleaned out soon, they are going to fall off the house. They already have trees growing out of them!” has ceased to love and has become a domineering spouse. When you make a request of your spouse, you are affirming his or her worth and abilities. You are in essence indicating that she has something or can do something that is meaningful and worthwhile to you. When, however, you make demands, you have become not a lover but a tyrant. Your spouse will feel not affirmed but belittled. A request introduces the element of choice. Your mate may choose to respond to your request or to deny it, because love is always a choice. That’s what makes it meaningful. To know that my spouse loves me enough to respond to one of my requests communicates emotionally that she cares about me, respects me, admires me, and wants to do something to please me. We cannot get emotional love by way of demand. My spouse may in fact comply with my demands, but it is not an expression of love. It is an act of fear or guilt or some other emotion, but not love. Thus, a request creates the possibility for an expression of love, whereas a demand suffocates that possibility. VARIOUS DIALECTS Words of affirmation are one of the five basic love languages. Within that language, however, there are many dialects. We have discussed a few already, and there are many more. Entire volumes and numerous articles have been written on these dialects. All of the dialects have in common the use of words to affirm one’s spouse. Psychologist William James said that possibly the deepest human need is the need to feel appreciated. Words of affirmation will meet that need in many individuals. If you are not a man or woman of words, if it is not your primary love language but you think it may be the love language of your spouse, let me suggest that you keep a notebook titled “Words of Affirmation.” When you read an article or book on love, record the words of affirmation you find. When you hear a lecture on love or you overhear a friend saying something positive about another person, write it down. In time, you will collect quite a list of words to use in communicating love to your spouse. You may also want to try giving indirect words of affirmation, that is, saying positive things about your spouse when he or she is not present. Eventually, someone will tell your spouse, and you will get full credit for love. Tell your wife’s mother how great your wife is. When her mother tells her what you said, it will be amplified, and you will get even more credit. Also affirm your spouse in front of others when he or she is present. When you are given public honor for an accomplishment, be sure to share the credit with your spouse. You may also try your hand at writing words of affirmation. Written words have the benefit of being read over and over again. I learned an important lesson about words of affirmation and love languages in Little Rock, Arkansas. My visit with Bill and Betty Jo was on a beautiful spring day. They lived in a cluster home with white picket fence, green grass, and spring flowers in full bloom. It was idyllic. Once inside, however, I discovered that the idealism ended. Their marriage was in shambles. Twelve years and two children after the wedding day, they wondered why they had married in the first place. They seemed to disagree on everything. The only thing they really agreed on was that they both loved the children. As the story unraveled, my observation was that Bill was a workaholic who had little time left over for Betty Jo. Betty Jo worked part-time, mainly to get out of the house. Their method of coping was withdrawal. They tried to put distance between themselves so that their conflicts would not seem as large. But the gauge on both love tanks read “empty.” They told me that they had been going for marriage counseling but didn’t seem to be making much progress. They were attending my marriage seminar, and I was leaving town the next day. This would likely be my only encounter with Bill and Betty Jo. I decided to put all my eggs in one basket. I spent an hour with each of them separately. I listened intently to both stories. I discovered that in spite of the emptiness of their relationship and their many disagreements, they appreciated certain things about each other. Bill acknowledged, “She is a good mother. She also is a good housekeeper and an excellent cook when she chooses to cook. But,” he continued, “there is simply no affection coming from her. I work my butt off and there is simply no appreciation.” In my conversation with Betty Jo, she agreed that Bill was an excellent provider. “But,” she complained, “he does nothing around the house to help me, and he never has time for me. What’s the use of having the house, the recreational vehicle, and all the other things if you don’t ever get to enjoy them together?” With that information, I decided to focus my advice by making only one suggestion to each of them. I told Bill and Betty Jo separately that each one held the key to changing the emotional climate of the marriage. “That key,” I said, “is to express verbal appreciation for the things you like about the other person and, for the moment, suspending your complaints about the things you do not like.” We reviewed the positive comments they had already made about each other and helped each of them write a list of those positive traits. Bill’s list focused on Betty Jo’s activities as a mother, housekeeper, and cook. Betty Jo’s list focused on Bill’s hard work and financial provision of the family. We made the lists as specific as possible. Betty Jo’s list looked like this: He hasn’t missed a day of work in twelve years. He is aggressive in his work. He has received several promotions through the years. He is always thinking of ways to improve his productivity. He makes the house payment each month. He also pays the electrical bill, the gas bill, the water bill. He bought us a recreational vehicle three years ago. He mows the grass or hires someone to do it each week in the spring and summer. He rakes the leaves or hires someone to do it in the fall. He provides plenty of money for food and clothing for the family. He carries the garbage out about once a month. He provides money for me to buy Christmas presents for the family. He agrees that I can use the money I make at my part-time job any way I desire. Bill’s list looked like this: She makes the beds every day. She vacuums the house every week. She gets the kids off to school every morning with a good breakfast. She cooks dinner about three days a week. She buys the groceries. She helps the children with their homework. She transports the children to school and church activities. She teaches first grade Sunday school. She takes my clothes to the cleaners. She does the washing and some ironing. I suggested that they add to the lists things they noticed in the weeks ahead. I also suggested that twice a week, they select one positive trait and express verbal appreciation for it to the spouse. I gave one further guideline. I told Betty Jo that if Bill happened to give her a compliment, she was not to give him a compliment at the same time but rather, she should simply receive it and say, “Thank you for saying that.” I told Bill the same thing. I encouraged them to do that every week for two months, and if they found it helpful, they could continue. If the experiment did not help the emotional climate of the marriage, then they could write it off as another failed attempt. The next day, I got on the plane and returned home. I made a note to call Bill and Betty Jo two months later to see what had happened. When I called them in mid-summer, I asked to speak to each of them individually. I was amazed to find that Bill’s attitude had taken a giant step forward. He had guessed that I had given Betty Jo the same advice I had given him, but that was all right. He loved it. She was expressing appreciation for his hard work and his provision for the family. “She has actually made me feel like a man again. We’ve got a ways to go, Dr. Chapman, but I really believe we are on the road.” When I talked to Betty Jo, however, I found that she had only taken a baby step forward. She said, “It has improved some, Dr. Chapman. Bill is giving me verbal compliments as you suggested, and I guess he is sincere. But, Dr. Chapman, he’s still not spending any time with me. He is still so busy at work that we never have time together.” As I listened to Betty Jo, the lights came on. I knew that I had made a significant discovery. The love language of one person is not necessarily the love language of another. It was obvious that Bill’s primary love language was Words of Affirmation. He was a hard worker, and he enjoyed his work, but what he wanted most from his wife was expressions of appreciation for his work. That pattern was probably set in childhood, and the need for verbal affirmation was no less important in his adult life. Betty Jo, on the other hand, was emotionally crying out for something else. Positive words were fine, but her deep emotional longing is for something else. That brings us to love language number two. NOTES 1. Proverbs 18:21. 2. Proverbs 12:25. OceanofPDF.com If your spouse’s love language is Words of Affirmation: 1. To remind yourself that “Words of Affirmation” is your spouse’s primary love language, print the following on a 3x5 card and put it on a mirror or other place where you will see it daily: Words are important! Words are important! Words are important! 2. For one week, keep a written record of all the words of affirmation you give your spouse each day. At the end of the week, sit down with your spouse and review your record. On Monday, I said: “You did a great job on this meal.” “You really look nice in that outfit.” “I really appreciate your picking up the laundry.” On Tuesday, I said: etc. You might be surprised how well (or how poorly) you are speaking words of affirmation. 1. Set a goal to give your spouse a different compliment each day for one month. If “an apple a day keeps the doctor away,” maybe a compliment a day will keep the counselor away. (You may want to record these compliments also, so you will not duplicate the statements.) 2. As you read the newspaper, magazines, and books, or watch TV or listen to radio, look for words of affirmation which people use. Observe people in conversation. Write those affirming statements in a notebook. (If they are cartoons, clip and paste them in your notebook.) Read through these periodically and select those you could use with your spouse. When you use one, note the date on which you used it. Your notebook may become your love book. Remember, words are important! 3. Write a love letter, a love paragraph, or a love sentence to your spouse, and give it quietly or with fanfare! (Chances are, when he dies, you will find your love letter tucked away in some special place.) Words are important! 4. Compliment your spouse in the presence of his parents or friends. You will get double credit: Your spouse will feel loved and the parents will feel lucky to have such a great son-in-law or daughter-in-law. 5. Look for your spouse’s strengths and tell her how much you appreciate those strengths. Chances are she will work hard to live up to her reputation. 6. Tell your children how great their mother or father is. Do this behind your spouse’s back and in her presence. 7. Write a poem describing how you feel about your spouse. If you are not a poet, choose a card that expresses how you feel. Underline special words and add a few of your own at the end. 8. If you find speaking “Words of Affirmation” is difficult for you, practice in front of a mirror. Use a cue card if you must, and remember, words are important. OceanofPDF.com OceanofPDF.com chapter five OceanofPDF.com Love Language #2 QUALITY TIME I should have picked up on Betty Jo’s primary love language from the beginning. What was she saying on that spring night when I visited her and Bill in Little Rock? “Bill is a good provider, but he doesn’t spend any time with me. What good is the house and the recreational vehicle and all the other things if we don’t ever enjoy them together?” What was her desire? Quality time with Bill. She wanted his attention. She wanted him to focus on her, to give her time, to do things with her. By “quality time,” I mean giving someone your undivided attention. I don’t mean sitting on the couch watching television together. When you spend time that way, ABC or NBC has your attention—not your spouse. What I mean is sitting on the couch with the TV off, looking at each other and talking, giving each other your undivided attention. It means taking a walk, just the two of you, or going out to eat and looking at each other and talking. Have you ever noticed that in a restaurant, you can almost always tell the difference between a dating couple and a married couple? Dating couples look at each other and talk. Married couples sit there and gaze around the restaurant. You’d think they went there to eat! When I sit on the couch with my wife and give her twenty minutes of my undivided attention and she does the same for me, we are giving each other twenty minutes of life. We will never have those twenty minutes again; we are giving our lives to each other. It is a powerful emotional communicator of love. One medicine cannot cure all diseases. In my advice to Bill and Betty Jo, I made a serious mistake. I assumed that words of affirmation would mean as much to Betty Jo as they would to Bill. I had hoped that if each of them would give adequate verbal affirmation, the emotional climate would change, and both of them would begin to feel loved. It worked for Bill. He began to feel more positive about Betty Jo. He began to sense genuine appreciation for his hard work, but it had not worked as well for Betty Jo, for words of affirmation were not her primary love language. Her language was quality time. I got back on the phone and thanked Bill for his efforts in the past two months. I told him that he had done a good job of verbally affirming Betty Jo and that she had heard his affirmations. “But, Dr. Chapman,” he said, “she is still not very happy. I don’t think things are much better for her.” “You are right,” I said, “and I think I know why. The problem is that I suggested the wrong love language.” Bill hadn’t the foggiest idea what I meant. I explained that what makes one person feel loved emotionally is not always the thing that makes another person feel loved emotionally. He agreed that his language was words of affirmation. He told me how much that had meant to him as a boy and how good he felt when Betty Jo expressed appreciation for the things he did. I explained that Betty Jo’s language was not words of affirmation but quality time. I explained the concept of giving someone your undivided attention, not talking to her while you read the newspaper or watch television but looking into her eyes, giving her your full attention, doing something with her that she enjoys doing and doing it wholeheartedly. “Like going to the symphony with her,” he said. I could tell the lights were coming on in Little Rock. “Dr. Chapman, that is what she has always complained about. I didn’t do things with her, I didn’t spend any time with her. ‘We used to go places and do things before we were married,’ she said, ‘but now, you’re too busy.’ That’s her love language all right; no question about it. But, Dr. Chapman, what am I gonna do? My job is so demanding.” “Tell me about it,” I said. For the next ten minutes, he gave me the history of his climb up the organizational ladder, of how hard he had worked, and how proud he was of his accomplishments. He told me of his dreams for the future and that he knew that within the next five years, he would be where he wanted to be. “Do you want to be there alone, or do you want to be there with Betty Jo and the children?” I asked. “I want her to be with me, Dr. Chapman. I want her to enjoy it with me. That’s why it always hurts so much when she criticizes me for spending time on the job. I am doing it for us. I wanted her to be a part of it, but she is always so negative.” “Are you beginning to see why she was so negative, Bill?” I asked. “Her love language is quality time. You have given her so little time that her love tank is empty. She doesn’t feel secure in your love. Therefore she has lashed out at what was taking your time in her mind—your job. She doesn’t really hate your job. She hates the fact that she feels so little love coming from you. There’s only one answer, Bill, and it’s costly. You have to make time for Betty Jo. You have to love her in the right love language.” “I know you are right, Dr. Chapman. Where do I begin?” “Do you have your legal pad handy? The one on which we made the list of the positive things about Betty Jo?” “It’s right here.” “Good. We’re going to make another list. What are some things that you know Betty Jo would like you to do with her? Things she has mentioned through the years.” Here is Bill’s list: Take our RV and spend a weekend in the mountains (sometimes with the children and sometimes just the two of us). Meet her for lunch (at a nice restaurant or sometimes even at McDonald’s). Get a baby-sitter and take her out to dinner, just the two of us. When I come home at night, sit down and talk with her about my day and listen as she tells me about her day. (She doesn’t want me to watch TV while we are trying to talk.) Spend time talking with the children about their school experiences. Spend time playing games with the children. Go on a picnic with her and the children on Saturday and don’t complain about the ants and the flies. Take a vacation with the family at least once a year. Go walking with her and talk as we walk. (Don’t walk ahead of her.) “Those are the things she has talked about through the years,” he said. “You know what I am going to suggest, don’t you, Bill?” “Do them,” he said. “That’s right, one a week for the next two months. Where will you find the time? You will make it. You are a wise man,” I continued. “You would not be where you are if you were not a good decision maker. You have the ability to plan your life and to include Betty Jo in your plans.” “I know,” he said, “I can do it.” “And, Bill, this does not have to diminish your vocational goals. It just means that when you get to the top, Betty Jo and the children will be with you.” A central aspect of quality time is togetherness. I do not mean proximity…. Togetherness has to do with focused attention. “That’s what I want more than anything. Whether I am at the top or not, I want her to be happy, and I want to enjoy life with her and the children.” The years have come and gone. Bill and Betty Jo have gone to the top and back, but the important thing is that they have done it together. The children have left the nest, and Bill and Betty Jo agree that these are their best years ever. Bill has become an avid symphony fan, and Betty Jo has made an unending list in her legal pad of things she appreciates about Bill. He never tires of hearing them. He has now started his own company and is near the top again. His job is no longer a threat to Betty Jo. She is excited about it and encourages him. She knows that she is number one in his life. Her love tank is full, and if it begins to get empty, she knows that a simple request on her part will get her Bill’s undivided attention. TOGETHERNESS A central aspect of quality time is togetherness. I do not mean proximity. Two people sitting in the same room are in close proximity, but they are not necessarily together. Togetherness has to do with focused attention. When a father is sitting on the floor, rolling a ball to his two-year-old, his attention is not focused on the ball but on his child. For that brief moment, however long it lasts, they are together. If, however, the father is talking on the phone while he rolls the ball, his attention is diluted. Some husbands and wives think they are spending time together when, in reality, they are only living in close proximity. They are in the same house at the same time, but they are not together. A husband who is watching sports on television while he talks to his wife is not giving her quality time, because she does not have his full attention. Quality time does not mean that we have to spend our together moments gazing into each other’s eyes. It means that we are doing something together and that we are giving our full attention to the other person. The activity in which we are both engaged is incidental. The important thing emotionally is that we are spending focused time with each other. The activity is a vehicle that creates the sense of togetherness. The important thing about the father rolling the ball to the two-year-old is not the activity itself, but the emotions that are created between the father and his child. Similarly, a husband and wife playing tennis together, if it is genuine quality time, will focus not on the game but on the fact that they are spending time together. What happens on the emotional level is what matters. Our spending time together in a common pursuit communicates that we care about each other, that we enjoy being with each other, that we like to do things together. QUALITY CONVERSATION Like words of affirmation, the language of quality time also has many dialects. One of the most common dialects is that of quality conversation. By quality conversation, I mean sympathetic dialogue where two individuals are sharing their experiences, thoughts, feelings, and desires in a friendly, uninterrupted context. Most individuals who complain that their spouse does not talk do not mean literally that he or she never says a word. They mean that he or she seldom takes part in sympathetic dialogue. If your spouse’s primary love language is quality time, such dialogue is crucial to his or her emotional sense of being loved. Quality conversation is quite different from the first love language. Words of affirmation focus on what we are saying, whereas quality conversation focuses on what we are hearing. If I am sharing my love for you by means of quality time and we are going to spend that time in conversation, it means I will focus on drawing you out, listening sympathetically to what you have to say. I will ask questions, not in a badgering manner but with a genuine desire to understand your thoughts, feelings, and desires. I met Patrick when he was forty-three and had been married for seventeen years. I remember him because his first words were so dramatic. He sat in the leather chair in my office and after briefly introducing himself, he leaned forward and said with great emotion, “Dr. Chapman, I have been a fool, a real fool.” “What has led you to that conclusion?” I asked. “I’ve been married for seventeen years,” he said, “and my wife has left me. Now I realize what a fool I’ve been.” I repeated my original question, “In what way have you been a fool?” “My wife would come home from work and tell me about the problems in her office. I would listen to her and then tell her what I thought she should do. I always gave her advice. I told her she had to confront the problem. ‘Problems don’t go away. You have to talk with the people involved or your supervisor. You have to deal with problems.’ The next day she would come home from work and tell me about the same problems. I would ask her if she did what I had suggested the day before. She would shake her head and say no. So I’d repeat my advice. I told her that was the way to deal with the situation. She would come home the next day and tell me about the same problems. Again I would ask her if she had done what I had suggested. She would shake her head and say no. “After three or four nights of that, I would get angry. I would tell her not to expect any sympathy from me if she wasn’t willing to take the advice I was giving her. She didn’t have to live under that kind of stress and pressure. She could solve the problem if she would simply do what I told her. It hurt me to see her living under such stress because I knew she didn’t have to. The next time she’d bring up the problem, I would say, ‘I don’t want to hear about it. I’ve told you what you need to do. If you’re not going to listen to my advice, I don’t want to hear it.’ Many of us…are trained to analyze problems and create solutions. We forget that marriage is a relationship, not a project to be completed or a problem to solve. “I would withdraw and go about my business. What a fool I was,” he said, “what a fool! Now I realize that she didn’t want advice when she told me about her struggles at work. She wanted sympathy. She wanted me to listen, to give her attention, to let her know that I could understand the hurt, the stress, the pressure. She wanted to know that I loved her and that I was with her. She didn’t want advice; she just wanted to know that I understood. But I never tried to understand. I was too busy giving advice. What a fool. And now she is gone. Why can’t you see these things when you are going through them?” he asked. “I was blind to what was going on. Only now do I understand how I failed her.” Patrick’s wife had been pleading for quality conversation. Emotionally, she longed for him to focus attention on her by listening to her pain and frustration. Patrick was not focusing on listening but on speaking. He listened only long enough to hear the problem and formulate a solution. He didn’t listen long enough or well enough to hear her cry for support and understanding. Many of us are like Patrick. We are trained to analyze problems and create solutions. We forget that marriage is a relationship, not a project to be completed or a problem to solve. A relationship calls for sympathetic listening with a view to understanding the other person’s thoughts, feelings, and desires. We must be willing to give advice but only when it is requested and never in a condescending manner. Most of us have little training in listening. We are far more efficient in thinking and speaking. Learning to listen may be as difficult as learning a foreign language, but learn we must, if we want to communicate love. That is especially true if your spouse’s primary love language is quality time and his or her dialect is quality conversation. Fortunately, numerous books and articles have been written on developing the art of listening. I will not seek to repeat what is written elsewhere but suggest the following summary of practical tips. 1. Maintain eye contact when your spouse is talking. That keeps your mind from wandering and communicates that he/she has your full attention. 2. Don’t listen to your spouse and do something else at the same time. Remember, quality time is giving someone your undivided attention. If you are watching, reading, or doing something else in which you are keenly interested and cannot turn from immediately, tell your spouse the truth. A positive approach might be, “I know you are trying to talk to me and I’m interested, but I want to give you my full attention. I can’t do that right now, but if you will give me ten minutes to finish this, I’ll sit down and listen to you.” Most spouses will respect such a request. 3. Listen for feelings. Ask yourself, “What emotion is my spouse experiencing?” When you think you have the answer, confirm it. For example, “It sounds to me like you are feeling disappointed because I forgot __________.” That gives him the chance to clarify his feelings. It also communicates that you are listening intently to what he is saying. 4. Observe body language. Clenched fists, trembling hands, tears, furrowed brows, and eye movement may give you clues as to what the other is feeling. Sometimes body language speaks one message while words speak another. Ask for clarification to make sure you know what she is really thinking and feeling. 5. Refuse to interrupt. Recent research has indicated that the average individual listens for only seventeen seconds before interrupting and interjecting his own ideas. If I give you my undivided attention while you are talking, I will refrain from defending myself or hurling accusations at you or dogmatically stating my position. My goal is to discover your thoughts and feelings. My objective is not to defend myself or to set you straight. It is to understand you. LEARNING TO TALK Quality conversation requires not only sympathetic listening but also self-revelation. When a wife says, “I wish my husband would talk. I never know what he’s thinking or feeling,” she is pleading for intimacy. She wants to feel close to her husband, but how can she feel close to someone whom she doesn’t know? In order for her to feel loved, he must learn to reveal himself. If her primary love language is quality time and her dialect is quality conversation, her emotional love tank will never be filled until he tells her his thoughts and feelings. If you need to learn the language of quality conversation, begin by noting the emotions you feel away from home. Self-revelation does not come easy for some of us. Many adults grew up in homes where the expression of thoughts and feelings was not encouraged but condemned. To request a toy was to receive a lecture on the sad state of family finances. The child went away feeling guilty for having the desire, and he quickly learned not to express his desires. When he expressed anger, the parents responded with harsh and condemning words. Thus, the child learned that expressing angry feelings is not appropriate. If the child was made to feel guilty for expressing disappointment at not being able to go to the store with his father, he learned to hold his disappointment inside. By the time we reach adulthood, many of us have learned to deny our feelings. We are no longer in touch with our emotional selves. A wife says to her husband, “How did you feel about what Don did?” And the husband responds, “I think he was wrong. He should have—” but he is not telling her his feelings. He is voicing his thoughts. Perhaps he has reason to feel angry, hurt, or disappointed, but he has lived so long in the world of thought that he does not acknowledge his feelings. When he decides to learn the language of quality conversation, it will be like learning a foreign language. The place to begin is by getting in touch with his feelings, becoming aware that he is an emotional creature in spite of the fact that he has denied that part of his life. If you need to learn the language of quality conversation, begin by noting the emotions you feel away from home. Carry a small notepad and keep it with you daily. Three times each day, ask yourself, “What emotions have I felt in the last three hours? What did I feel on the way to work when the driver behind me was riding my bumper? What did I feel when I stopped at the gas station and the automatic pump did not shut off and the side of the car was covered with gas? What did I feel when I got to the office and found that my secretary had been assigned to a special work project for the morning? What did I feel when my supervisor told me that the project I was working on had to be completed in three days when I thought I had another two weeks?” Write down your feelings in the notepad and a word or two to help you remember the event corresponding to the feeling. Your list may look like this: EVENT FEELINGS • tailgater • angry • gas station • very upset • no secretary • disappointed • work project due in three days • frustrated and anxious Do that exercise three times a day, and you will develop an awareness of your emotional nature. Using your notepad, communicate your emotions and the events briefly with your spouse as many days as possible. In a few weeks, you will become comfortable expressing your emotions with him or her. And eventually you will feel comfortable discussing your emotions toward your spouse, the children, and events that occur within the home. Remember, emotions themselves are neither good nor bad. They are simply our psychological responses to the events of life. Based on our thoughts and emotions, we eventually make decisions. When the tailgater was following you on the highway and you felt angry, perhaps you had these thoughts: I wish he would lay off; I wish he would pass me; if I thought I wouldn’t get caught, I’d press the accelerator and leave him in the twilight; I should slam on my brakes and let his insurance company buy me a new car; maybe I’ll pull off the road and let him pass. Eventually, you made some decision or the other driver backed off, turned, or passed you, and you arrived safely at work. In each of life’s events, we have emotions, thoughts, desires, and eventually actions. It is the expression of that process that we call self-revelation. If you choose to learn the love dialect of quality conversation, that is the learning road you must follow. PERSONALITY TYPES Not all of us are out of touch with our emotions, but when it comes to talking, all of us are affected by our personality. I have observed two basic personality types. The first I call the “Dead Sea.” In the little nation of Israel, the Sea of Galilee flows south by way of the Jordan River into the Dead Sea. The Dead Sea goes nowhere. It receives but it does not give. This personality type receives many experiences, emotions, and thoughts throughout the day. They have a large reservoir where they store that information, and they are perfectly happy not to talk. If you say to a Dead Sea personality, “What’s wrong? Why aren’t you talking tonight?” he will probably answer, “Nothing’s wrong. What makes you think something’s wrong?” And that response is perfectly honest. He is content not to talk. He could drive from Chicago to Detroit and never say a word and be perfectly happy. On the other extreme is the “Babbling Brook.” For this personality, whatever enters into the eye gate or the ear gate comes out the mouth gate and there are seldom sixty seconds between the two. Whatever they see, whatever they hear, they tell. In fact if no one is at home to talk to, they will call someone else. “Do you know what I saw? Do you know what I heard?” If they can’t get someone on the telephone, they may talk to themselves because they have no reservoir. Many times a Dead Sea marries a Babbling Brook. That happens because when they are dating, it is a very attractive match. One way to learn new patterns is to establish a daily sharing time in which each of you will talk about three things that happened to you that day and how you feel about them. If you are a Dead Sea and you date a Babbling Brook, you will have a wonderful evening. You don’t have to think, “How will I get the conversation started tonight? How will I keep the conversation flowing?” In fact, you don’t have to think at all. All you have to do is nod your head and say, “Uh-huh,” and she will fill up the whole evening and you will go home saying, “What a wonderful person.” On the other hand, if you are a Babbling Brook and you date a Dead Sea, you will have an equally wonderful evening because Dead Seas are the world’s best listeners. You will babble for three hours. He will listen intently to you, and you will go home saying, “What a wonderful person.” You attract each other. But five years after marriage, the Babbling Brook wakes up one morning and says, “We’ve been married five years, and I don’t know him.” The Dead Sea is saying, “I know her too well. I wish she would stop the flow and give me a break.” The good news is that Dead Seas can learn to talk and Babbling Brooks can learn to listen. We are influenced by our personality but not controlled by it. One way to learn new patterns is to establish a daily sharing time in which each of you will talk about three things that happened to you that day and how you feel about them. I call that the “Minimum Daily Requirement” for a healthy marriage. If you will start with the daily minimum, in a few weeks or months you may find quality conversation flowing more freely between you. QUALITY ACTIVITIES In addition to the basic love language of quality time, or giving your spouse your undivided attention, is another dialect called quality activities. At a recent marriage seminar, I asked couples to complete the following sentence: “I feel most loved by my husband/ wife when _______.” Here is the response of a twenty-nine-year-old husband who has been married for eight years: “I feel most loved by my wife when we do things together, things I like to do and things she likes to do. We talk more. It sorta feels like we are dating again.” That is a typical response of individuals whose primary love language is quality time. The emphasis is on being together, doing things together, giving each other undivided attention. Quality activities may include anything in which one or both of you have an interest. The emphasis is not on what you are doing but on why you are doing it. The purpose is to experience something together, to walk away from it feeling “He cares about me. He was willing to do something with me that I enjoy, and he did it with a positive attitude.” That is love, and for some people it is love’s loudest voice. Tracie grew up with the symphony. Throughout her childhood, the house was filled with classical music. At least once a year, she accompanied her parents to the symphony. Larry, on the other hand, grew up on country and western music. He never actually attended a concert, but the radio was always on, tuned to the country station. The symphony he called elevator music. Had he not married Tracie, he could have lived his life without ever attending the symphony. Before they were married, while he was still in the obsessed state of being in love, he went to the symphony. But even in his euphoric emotional state, his attitude was, “You call this stuff music?” After marriage, that was one experience he never expected to repeat. When, however, he discovered several years later that quality time was Tracie’s primary love language and that she especially liked the dialect of quality activities and that attending the symphony was one of those activities, he chose to go with an enthusiastic spirit. His purpose was clear. It was not to attend the symphony but to love Tracie and to speak her language loudly. In time, he did come to appreciate the symphony and even occasionally to enjoy a movement or two. He may never become a symphony lover, but he has become proficient at loving Tracie. Quality activities may include such activities as putting in a garden, visiting flea markets, shopping for antiques, listening to music, picnicking together, taking long walks, or washing the car together on a hot summer day. The activities are limited only by your interest and willingness to try new experiences. The essential ingredients in a quality activity are: (1) at least one of you wants to do it, (2) the other is willing to do it, (3) both of you know why you are doing it—to express love by being together. One of the by-products of quality activities is that they provide a memory bank from which to draw in the years ahead. Fortunate is the couple who remembers an early morning stroll along the coast, the spring they planted the flower garden, the time they got poison ivy chasing the rabbit through the woods, the night they attended their first major league baseball game together, the one and only time they went skiing together and he broke his leg, the amusement parks, the concerts, the cathedrals, and oh, yes, the awe of standing beneath the waterfall after the two-mile hike. They can almost feel the mist as they remember. Those are memories of love, especially for the person whose primary love language is quality time. And where do we find time for such activities, especially if both of us have vocations outside the home? We make time just as we make time for lunch and dinner. Why? Because it is just as essential to our marriage as meals are to our health. Is it difficult? Does it take careful planning? Yes. Does it mean we have to give up some individual activities? Perhaps. Does it mean we do some things we don’t particularly enjoy? Certainly. Is it worth it? Without a doubt. What’s in it for me? The pleasure of living with a spouse who feels loved and knowing that I have learned to speak his or her love language fluently. A personal word of thanks to Bill and Betty Jo in Little Rock, who taught me the value of love language number one, Words of Affirmation, and love language number two, Quality Time. Now, it’s on to Chicago and love language number three. If your spouse’s love language is Quality Time: 1. Take a walk together through the old neighborhood where one of you grew up. Ask questions about your spouse’s childhood. Ask, “What are the fun memories of your childhood?” Then, “What was most painful about your childhood?” 2. Go to the city park and rent bicycles. Ride until you are tired, then sit and watch the ducks. When you get tired of the quacks, roll on to the rose garden. Learn each other’s favorite color of rose and why. (If the bikes are too much, take turns pulling each other in a little red wagon.) 3. In the spring or summer make a luncheon appointment with your spouse. Meet him and drive to the local cemetery. Spread your tablecloth and eat your sandwiches and thank God that you are still alive. Share with each other one thing you would like to do before you die. 4. Ask your spouse for a list of five activities that he would enjoy doing with you. Make plans to do one of them each month for the next five months. If money is a problem, space the freebies between the “we can’t afford this” events. 5. Ask your spouse where she most enjoys sitting when talking with you. The next week, call her one afternoon and say, “I want to make a date with you one evening this week to sit on the yellow sofa and talk. Which night and what time would be best for you?” (Don’t say “yellow sofa” if her favorite place is in the Jacuzzi!) 6. Think of an activity your spouse enjoys, but which brings little pleasure to you: football, symphony, jazz concert, or TV sleeping. Tell your spouse that you are trying to broaden your horizons and would like to join her in this activity sometime this month. Set a date and give it your best effort. Ask questions about the activity at break times. 7. Plan a weekend getaway just for the two of you sometime within the next six months. Be sure it is a weekend when you won’t have to call the office or turn on the TV for a report every thirty minutes. Focus on relaxing together doing what one or both of you enjoy. 8. Make time every day to share with each other some of the events of the day. When you spend more time watching the news than you do listening to each other, you end up more concerned about Bosnia than about your spouse. 9. Have a “Let’s review our history” evening once every three months. Set aside an hour to focus on your history. Select five questions each of you will answer, such as: (1) Who was your best and worst teacher in school and why? (2) When did you feel your parents were proud of you? (3) What is the worst mistake your mother ever made? (4) What is the worst mistake your father ever made? (5) What do you remember about the religious aspect of your childhood? Each evening, agree on your five questions before you begin your sharing. At the end of the five questions, stop and decide upon the five questions you will ask next time. 10. Camp out by the fireplace (or an orange lamp). Spread your blankets and pillows on the floor. Get your Pepsi and popcorn. Pretend the TV is broken and talk like you used to when you were dating. Talk till the sun comes up or something else happens. If the floor gets too hard, go back upstairs and go to bed. You won’t forget this evening! OceanofPDF.com OceanofPDF.com chapter six OceanofPDF.com Love Language #3 RECEIVING GIFTS I was in Chicago when I studied anthropology. By means of detailed ethnographies, I visited fascinating peoples all over the world. I went to Central America and studied the advanced cultures of the Mayans and the Aztecs. I crossed the Pacific and studied the tribal peoples of Melanesia and Polynesia. I studied the Eskimos of the northern tundra and the aboriginal Ainus of Japan. I examined the cultural patterns surrounding love and marriage and found that in every culture I studied, gift giving was a part of the love-marriage process. Anthropologists are enamored by cultural patterns that tend to pervade cultures, and so was I. Could it be that gift giving is a fundamental expression of love that transcends cultural barriers? Is the attitude of love always accompanied by the concept of giving? Those are academic and somewhat philosophical questions, but if the answer is yes, it has profound practical implications for North American couples. I took an anthropology field trip to the island of Dominica. Our purpose was to study the culture of the Carib Indians, and on the trip I met Fred. Fred was not a Carib but a young black man of twenty-eight years. Fred had lost a hand in a fishing-by-dynamite accident. Since the accident, he could not continue his fishing career. He had plenty of available time, and I welcomed his companionship. We spent hours together talking about his culture. Upon my first visit to Fred’s house, he said to me, “Mr. Gary, would you like to have some juice?” to which I responded enthusiastically. He turned to his younger brother and said, “Go get Mr. Gary some juice.” His brother turned, walked down the dirt path, climbed a coconut tree, and returned with a green coconut. “Open it,” Fred commanded. With three swift movements of the machete, his brother uncorked the coconut, leaving a triangular hole at the top. Fred handed me the coconut and said, “Juice for you.” It was green, but I drank it—all of it—because I knew it was a gift of love. I was his friend, and to friends you give juice. At the end of our weeks together as I prepared to leave that small island, Fred gave me a final token of his love. It was a crooked stick fourteen inches in length which he had taken from the ocean. It was silky smooth from pounding upon the rocks. Fred said that the stick had lived on the shores of Dominica for a long time, and he wanted me to have it as a reminder of the beautiful island. Even today when I look at that stick, I can almost hear the sound of the Caribbean waves, but it is not as much a reminder of Dominica as it is a reminder of love. A gift is something you can hold in your hand and say, “Look, he was thinking of me,” or, “She remembered me.” You must be thinking of someone to give him a gift. The gift itself is a symbol of that thought. It doesn’t matter whether it costs money. What is important is that you thought of him. And it is not the thought implanted only in the mind that counts, but the thought expressed in actually securing the gift and giving it as the expression of love. Mothers remember the days their children bring a flower from the yard as a gift. They feel loved, even if it was a flower they didn’t want picked. From early years, children are inclined to give gifts to their parents, which may be another indication that gift giving is fundamental to love. Gifts are visual symbols of love. Most wedding ceremonies include the giving and receiving of rings. The person performing the ceremony says, “These rings are outward and visible signs of an inward and spiritual bond that unites your two hearts in love that has no end.” That is not meaningless rhetoric. It is verbalizing a significant truth—symbols have emotional value. Perhaps that is even more graphically displayed near the end of a disintegrating marriage when the husband or wife stops wearing the wedding ring. It is a visual sign that the marriage is in serious trouble. One husband said, “When she threw her wedding rings at me and angrily walked out of the house slamming the door behind her, I knew our marriage was in serious trouble. I didn’t pick up her rings for two days. When I finally did, I cried uncontrollably.” The rings were a symbol of what should have been, but lying in his hand and not on her finger, they were visual reminders that the marriage was falling apart. The lonely rings stirred deep emotions within the husband. Visual symbols of love are more important to some people than to others. That’s why individuals have different attitudes toward wedding rings. Some never take the ring off after the wedding. Others don’t even wear a wedding band. That is another sign that people have different primary love languages. If receiving gifts is my primary love language, I will place great value on the ring you have given me and I will wear it with great pride. I will also be greatly moved emotionally by other gifts that you give through the years. I will see them as expressions of love. Without gifts as visual symbols, I may question your love. Gifts come in all sizes, colors, and shapes. Some are expensive, and others are free. To the individual whose primary love language is receiving gifts, the cost of the gift will matter little, unless it is greatly out of line with what you can afford. If a millionaire gives only one-dollar gifts regularly, the spouse may question whether that is an expression of love, but when family finances are limited, a one-dollar gift may speak a million dollars worth of love. If your spouse’s primary love language is receiving gifts, you can become a proficient gift giver. In fact, it is one of the easiest love languages to learn. Gifts may be purchased, found, or made. The husband who stops along the roadside and picks his wife a wildflower has found himself an expression of love, unless, of course, his wife is allergic to wildflowers. For the man who can afford it, you can purchase a beautiful card for less than five dollars. For the man who cannot, you can make one for free. Get the paper out of the trash can where you work, fold it in the middle, take scissors and cut out a heart, write “I love you,” and sign your name. Gifts need not be expensive. But what of the person who says, “I’m not a gift giver. I didn’t receive many gifts growing up. I never learned how to select gifts. It doesn’t come naturally for me.” Congratulations, you have just made the first discovery in becoming a great lover. You and your spouse speak different love languages. Now that you have made that discovery, get on with the business of learning your second language. If your spouse’s primary love language is receiving gifts, you can become a proficient gift giver. In fact, it is one of the easiest love languages to learn. Where do you begin? Make a list of all the gifts your spouse has expressed excitement about receiving through the years. They may be gifts you have given or gifts given by other family members or friends. The list will give you an idea of the kind of gifts your spouse would enjoy receiving. If you have little or no knowledge about selecting the kinds of gifts on your list, recruit the help of family members who know your spouse. In the meantime, select gifts that you feel comfortable purchasing, making, or finding, and give them to your spouse. Don’t wait for a special occasion. If receiving gifts is his/her primary love language, almost anything you give will be received as an expression of love. (If she has been critical of your gifts in the past and almost nothing you have given has been acceptable, then receiving gifts is almost certainly not her primary love language.) GIFTS AND MONEY If you are to become an effective gift giver, you may have to change your attitude about money. Each of us has an individualized perception of the purposes of money, and we have various emotions associated with spending it. Some of us have a spending orientation. We feel good about ourselves when we are spending money. Others have a saving and investing perspective. We feel good about ourselves when we are saving money and investing it wisely. If you are a spender, you will have little difficulty purchasing gifts for your spouse; but if you are a saver, you will experience emotional resistance to the idea of spending money as an expression of love. You don’t purchase things for yourself. Why should you purchase things for your spouse? But that attitude fails to recognize that you are purchasing things for yourself. By saving and investing money you are purchasing self-worth and emotional security. You are caring for your own emotional needs in the way you handle money. What you are not doing is meeting the emotional needs of your spouse. If you discover that your spouse’s primary love language is receiving gifts, then perhaps you will understand that purchasing gifts for him or her is the best investment you can make. You are investing in your relationship and filling your spouse’s emotional love tank, and with a full love tank, he or she will likely reciprocate emotional love to you in a language you will understand. When both persons’ emotional needs are met, your marriage will take on a whole new dimension. Don’t worry about your savings. You will always be a saver, but to invest in loving your spouse is to invest in blue-chip stocks. THE GIFT OF SELF There is an intangible gift that sometimes speaks more loudly than a gift that can be held in one’s hand. I call it the gift of self or the gift of presence. Being there when your spouse needs you speaks loudly to the one whose primary love language is receiving gifts. Jan once said to me, “My husband, Don, loves softball more than he loves me.” “Why do you say that?” I inquired. “On the day our baby was born, he played softball. I was lying in the hospital all afternoon while he played softball,” she said. “Was he there when the baby was born?” “Oh, yes. He stayed long enough for the baby to be born, but ten minutes afterward, he left to play softball. I was devastated. It was such an important moment in our lives. I wanted us to share it together. I wanted him to be there with me. Don deserted me to play.” That husband may have sent her a dozen roses, but they would not have spoken as loudly as his presence in the hospital room beside her. I could tell that Jan was deeply hurt by that experience. The “baby” was now fifteen years old, and she was talking about the event with all the emotion as though it had happened yesterday. I probed further. “Have you based your conclusion that Don loves softball more than he loves you on this one experience?” “Oh, no,” she said. “On the day of my mother’s funeral, he also played softball.” “Did he go to the funeral?” “Oh, yes. He went to the funeral, but as soon as it was over, he left to play softball. I couldn’t believe it. My brothers and sisters came to the house with me, but my husband was playing softball.” Later, I asked Don about those two events. He knew exactly what I was talking about. “I knew she would bring that up,” he said. “I was there through all the labor and when the baby was born. I took pictures; I was so happy. I couldn’t wait to tell the guys on the team, but my bubble was burst when I got back to the hospital that evening. She was furious with me. I couldn’t believe what she was saying. I thought she would be proud of me for telling the team. Physical presence in the time of crisis is the most powerful gift you can give if your spouse’s primary love language is receiving gifts. “And when her mother died? She probably did not tell you that I took off work a week before she died and spent the whole week at the hospital and at her mother’s house doing repairs and helping out. After she died and the funeral was over, I felt I had done all I could do. I needed a breather. I like to play softball, and I knew that would help me relax and relieve some of the stress I’d been under. I thought she would want me to take a break. “I had done what I thought was important to her, but it wasn’t enough. She has never let me forget those two days. She says that I love softball more than I love her. That’s ridiculous.” He was a sincere husband who failed to understand the tremendous power of presence. His being there for his wife was more important than anything else in her mind. Physical presence in the time of crisis is the most powerful gift you can give if your spouse’s primary love language is receiving gifts. Your body becomes the symbol of your love. Remove the symbol, and the sense of love evaporates. In counseling, Don and Jan worked through the hurts and misunderstandings of the past. Eventually, Jan was able to forgive him, and Don came to understand why his presence was so important to her. If the physical presence of your spouse is important to you, I urge you to verbalize that to your spouse. Don’t expect him to read your mind. If, on the other hand, your spouse says to you, “I really want you to be there with me tonight, tomorrow, this afternoon,” take his request seriously. From your perspective, it may not be important; but if you are not responsive to that request, you may be communicating a message you do not intend. A husband once said, “When my mother died, my wife’s supervisor said that she could be off two hours for the funeral but she needed to be back in the office for the afternoon. My wife told him that she felt her husband needed her support that day and she would have to be away the entire day. “The supervisor replied, ‘If you are gone all day, you may well lose your job.’ “My wife said, ‘My husband is more important than my job.’ She spent the day with me. Somehow that day, I felt more loved by her than ever before. I have never forgotten what she did. Incidentally,” he said, “she didn’t lose her job. Her supervisor soon left, and she was asked to take his job.” That wife had spoken the love language of her husband, and he never forgot it. Almost everything ever written on the subject of love indicates that at the heart of love is the spirit of giving. All five love languages challenge us to give to our spouse, but for some, receiving gifts, visible symbols of love, speaks the loudest. I heard the most graphic illustration of that truth in Chicago, where I met Jim and Janice. They attended my marriage seminar and agreed to take me to O’Hare Airport after the seminar on Saturday afternoon. We had two or three hours before my flight, and they asked if I would like to stop at a restaurant. I was famished, so I readily agreed. That afternoon, however, I got much more than a free meal. Jim and Janice both grew up on farms in central Illinois not more than a hundred miles from each other. They moved to Chicago shortly after their wedding. I was hearing their story fifteen years and three children later. Janice began talking almost immediately after we sat down. She said, “Dr. Chapman, the reason we wanted to take you to the airport is so that we could tell you about our miracle.” Something about the word miracle always causes me to brace myself, especially if I don’t know the person who is using it. What bizarre story am I going to hear? I wondered, but I kept my thoughts to myself and gave Janice my undivided attention. I was about to be shocked. She said, “Dr. Chapman, God used you to perform a miracle in our marriage.” I felt guilty already. A moment ago, I was questioning her use of the term miracle, and now in her mind I was the vehicle of a miracle. Now I was listening even more intently. Janice continued, “Three years ago, we attended your marriage seminar here in Chicago for the first time. I was desperate,” she said. “I was thinking seriously of leaving Jim and had told him so. Our marriage had been empty for a long time. I had given up. For years, I had complained to Jim that I needed his love, but he never responded. I loved the children, and I knew they loved me, but I felt nothing coming from Jim. In fact, by that time, I hated him. He was a methodical person. He did everything by routine. He was as predictable as a clock, and no one could break into his routine. “For years,” she continued, “I tried to be a good wife. I cooked, I washed, I ironed, I cooked, I washed, I ironed. I did all the things I thought a good wife should do. I had sex with him because I knew that was important to him, but I felt no love coming from him. I felt like he stopped dating me after we got married and simply took me for granted. I felt used and unappreciated. “When I talked to Jim about my feelings, he’d laugh at me and say we had as good a marriage as anybody else in the community. He didn’t understand why I was so unhappy. He would remind me that the bills were paid, that we had a nice house and a new car, that I was free to work or not work outside the home, and that I should be happy instead of complaining all the time. He didn’t even try to understand my feelings. I felt totally rejected. “Well, anyway,” she said as she moved her tea and leaned forward, “we came to your seminar three years ago. We had never been to a marriage seminar before. I did not know what to expect, and frankly I didn’t expect much. I didn’t think anybody could change Jim. During and after the seminar, Jim didn’t say too much. He seemed to like it. He said that you were funny, but he didn’t talk with me about any of the ideas in the seminar. I didn’t expect him to, and I didn’t ask him to. As I said, I had already given up by then. “As you know,” she said, “the seminar ended on Saturday afternoon. Saturday night and Sunday were pretty much as usual, but Monday afternoon, he came home from work and gave me a rose. ‘Where did you get that?’ I asked. ‘I bought it from a street vendor,’ he said. ‘I thought you deserved a rose.’ I started crying. ‘Oh, Jim, that is so sweet of you.’ “In my mind,” she said, “I knew he bought the rose from a Moonie. I had seen the young man selling roses that afternoon, but it didn’t matter. The fact was, he had brought me a rose. On Tuesday he called me from the office at about one-thirty and asked me what I thought about his buying a pizza and bringing it home for dinner. He said he thought I might enjoy a break from cooking dinner. I told him I thought the idea was wonderful, and so he brought home a pizza and we had a fun time together. The children loved the pizza and thanked their father for bringing it. I actually gave him a hug and told him how much I enjoyed it. “When he came home on Wednesday, he brought each of the children a box of Cracker Jacks, and he had a small potted plant for me. He said he knew the rose would die, and he thought I might like something that would be around for a while. I was beginning to think I was hallucinating! I couldn’t believe what Jim was doing or why he was doing it. Thursday night after dinner, he handed me a card with a message about his not always being able to express his love to me but hoping that the card would communicate how much he cared. Again I cried, looked up at him, and could not resist hugging and kissing him. ‘Why don’t we get a baby-sitter on Saturday night and the two of us go out for dinner?’ he suggested. ‘That would be wonderful,’ I said. On Friday afternoon, he stopped by the cookie shop and bought each of us one of our favorite cookies. Again, he kept it as a surprise, telling us only that he had a treat for dessert. “By Saturday night,” she said, “I was in orbit. I had no idea what had come over Jim, or if it would last, but I was enjoying every minute of it. After our dinner at the restaurant, I said to him, ‘Jim, you have to tell me what’s happening. I don’t understand.’” She looked at me intently and said, “Dr. Chapman, you have to understand. This man had never given me a flower since the day we got married. He never gave me a card for any occasion. He always said, ‘It’s a waste of money; you look at the card and throw it away.’ We’d been out to dinner one time in five years. He never bought the children anything and expected me to buy only the essentials. He had never brought a pizza home for dinner. He expected me to have dinner ready every night. I mean, this was a radical change in his behavior.” I turned to Jim and asked, “What did you say to her in the restaurant when she asked you what was going on?” “I told her that I had listened to your lecture on love languages at the seminar and that I realized that her love language was gifts. I also realized that I had not given her a gift in years, maybe not since we had been married. I remembered that when we were dating I used to bring her flowers and other small gifts, but after marriage I figured we couldn’t afford that. I told her that I had decided that I was going to try to get her a gift every day for one week and see if it made any difference in her. I had to admit that I had seen a pretty big difference in her attitude during the week. “I told her that I realized that what you said was really true and that learning the right love language was the key to helping another person feel loved. I said I was sorry that I had been so dense for all those years and had failed to meet her need for love. I told her that I really loved her and that I appreciated all the things she did for me and the children. I told her that with God’s help, I was going to be a gift giver for the rest of my life. “She said, ‘But, Jim, you can’t go on buying me gifts every day for the rest of your life. You can’t afford that.’ ‘Well, maybe not every day,’ I said, ‘but at least once a week. That would be fifty-two more gifts per year than what you have received in the past five years.’ I continued, ‘And who said I was going to buy all of them? I might even make some of them, or I’ll take Dr. Chapman’s idea and pick a free flower from the front yard in the spring.’” Janice interrupted, “Dr. Chapman, I don’t think he has missed a single week in three years. He is like a new man. You wouldn’t believe how happy we have been. Our children call us lovebirds now. My tank is full and overflowing.” I turned to Jim and asked, “But what about you, Jim? Do you feel loved by Janice?” “Oh, I’ve always felt loved by her, Dr. Chapman. She is the best housekeeper in the world. She is an excellent cook. She keeps my clothes washed and ironed. She is wonderful about doing things for the children. I know she loves me.” He smiled and said, “Now, you know what my love language is, don’t you?” I did, and I also knew why Janice had used the word miracle. Gifts need not be expensive, nor must they be given weekly. But for some individuals, their worth has nothing to do with monetary value and everything to do with love. In chapter 7, we will clarify Jim’s love language. If your spouse’s love language is Receiving Gifts: 1. Try a parade of gifts: Leave a box of candy for your spouse in the morning (yogurt candy if health is an issue); have flowers delivered in the afternoon (unless your spouse is allergic to flowers); give him a shirt in the evening. When your spouse asks, “What is going on?” you respond: “Just trying to fill your love tank!” 2. Let nature be your guide: The next time you take a walk through the neighborhood, keep your eyes open for a gift for your spouse. It may be a stone, a stick, or a flower (be sure to ask your neighbor, if the flower is not in your own yard). You may even attach special meaning to your natural gift. For example, a smooth stone may symbolize your marriage with many of the rough places now polished. A rose may remind you of the beauty you see in your spouse. 3. Discover the value of “handmade originals.” Make a gift for your spouse. This may require you to enroll in an art or crafts class: ceramics, silversmithing, painting, wood carving, etc. Your main purpose for enrolling is to make your spouse a gift. A handmade gift often becomes a family heirloom. 4. Give your spouse a gift every day for one week. It need not be a special week, just any week. I promise you it will become “The Week That Was!” If you are really energetic, you can make it “The Month That Was!” No—your spouse will not expect you to keep this up for a lifetime. 5. Keep a “Gift Idea Notebook.” Every time you hear your spouse say: “I really like that,” or “Oh, I would really like to have one of those!” write it down in your notebook. Listen carefully and you will get quite a list. This will serve as a guide when you get ready to select a gift. To prime the pump, you may look through a shopping catalog together. 6. “Help! I’m confused!” If you really don’t have a clue as to how to select a gift for your spouse, ask a friend or family member who knows your wife or husband well to help you. Most people enjoy making a friend happy by getting them a gift, especially if it is with your money. 7. Offer the gift of presence. Say to your spouse: “I want to offer the gift of my presence at any event or on any occasion you would like this month. You tell me when, and I will make every effort to be there.” Get ready! Be positive! Who knows, you may enjoy the symphony or the hockey game. 8. Give your spouse a book and agree to read it yourself. Then offer to discuss together a chapter each week. Don’t choose a book that you want him or her to read. Choose a book on a topic in which you know your spouse has an interest: sex, football, needlework, money management, child rearing, religion, or backpacking. 9. Give a lasting tribute. Give a substantial gift to your spouse’s church or favorite charity in honor of her birthday, your anniversary, or another occasion. Ask the charity to send a card informing your spouse of what you have done. The church or charity will be excited and so will your spouse. 10. Give a living gift. Purchase and plant a tree or flowering shrub in honor of your spouse. You may plant it in your own yard, where you can water and nurture it, or in a public park or forest where others can also enjoy it. You will get credit for this one year after year. If it is an apple tree, you may live long enough to get an apple. One warning: Don’t plant a crab apple tree! OceanofPDF.com OceanofPDF.com chapter seven OceanofPDF.com Love Language #4 ACTS OF SERVICE Before we leave Jim and Janice, let’s reexamine Jim’s answer to my question, “Do you feel loved by Janice?” “Oh, I’ve always felt loved by her, Dr. Chapman. She is the best housekeeper in the world. She is an excellent cook. She keeps my clothes washed and ironed. She is wonderful about doing things with the children. I know she loves me.” Jim’s primary love language was what I call “acts of service.” By acts of service, I mean doing things you know your spouse would like you to do. You seek to please her by serving her, to express your love for her by doing things for her. Such actions as cooking a meal, setting a table, washing dishes, vacuuming, cleaning a commode, getting hairs out of the sink, removing the white spots from the mirror, getting bugs off the windshield, taking out the garbage, changing the baby’s diaper, painting a bedroom, dusting the bookcase, keeping the car in operating condition, washing or vacuuming the car, cleaning the garage, mowing the grass, trimming the shrubs, raking the leaves, dusting the blinds, walking the dog, changing the cat’s litter box, and changing water in the goldfish bowl are all acts of service. They require thought, planning, time, effort, and energy. If done with a positive spirit, they are indeed expressions of love. Jesus Christ gave a simple but profound illustration of expressing love by an act of service when He washed the feet of His disciples. In a culture where people wore sandals and walked on dirt streets, it was customary for the servant of the household to wash the feet of guests as they arrived. Jesus, who had instructed His disciples to love one another, gave them an example of how to express that love when He took a basin and a towel and proceeded to wash their feet.1 After that simple expression of love, He encouraged His disciples to follow His example. Earlier in His life, Jesus had indicated that in His kingdom those who would be great would be servants. In most societies, those who are great lord it over those who are small, but Jesus Christ said that those who are great would serve others. The apostle Paul summarized that philosophy when he said, “Serve one another in love.”2 I discovered the impact of “acts of service” in the little village of China Grove, North Carolina. China Grove sits in central North Carolina, originally nestled in chinaberry trees, not far from Andy Griffith’s legendary Mayberry, and an hour and a half from Mount Pilot. At the time of this story, China Grove was a textile town with a population of 1,500. I had been away for more than ten years, studying anthropology, psychology, and theology. I was making my semiannual visit to keep in touch with my roots. Almost everyone I knew except Dr. Shin and Dr. Smith worked in the mill. Dr. Shin was the medical doctor, and Dr. Smith was the dentist. And of course, there was Preacher Blackburn, who was pastor of the church. For most couples in China Grove, life centered on work and church. The conversation at the mill focused on the superintendent’s latest decision and how it affected their job in particular. The services at church focused mainly on the anticipated joys of heaven. In that pristine American setting, I discovered love language number four. I was standing under a chinaberry tree after church on Sunday when Mark and Mary approached me. I didn’t recognize either of them. I assumed they had grown up while I was away. Introducing himself, Mark said, “I understand you have been studying counseling.” I smiled and said, “Well, a little bit.” “I have a question,” he said. “Can a couple make it in marriage if they disagree on everything?” It was one of those theoretical questions that I knew had a personal root. I brushed aside the theoretical nature of his question and asked him a personal question. “How long have you been married?” “Two years,” he responded. “And we don’t agree on anything.” “Give me some examples,” I continued. “Well, for one thing, Mary doesn’t like me to go hunting. I work all week in the mill, and I like to go hunting on Saturdays—not every Saturday but when hunting season is in.” Mary had been silent until this point when she interjected. “When hunting season is out, he goes fishing, and besides that, he doesn’t hunt just on Saturdays. He takes off from work to go hunting.” “Once or twice a year I take off two or three days from work to go hunting in the mountains with some buddies. I don’t think there is anything wrong with that.” “What else do you disagree on?” I asked. “Well, she wants me to go to church all the time. I don’t mind going on Sunday morning, but Sunday night I like to rest. It’s all right if she wants to go, but I don’t think I ought to have to go.” Again, Mary spoke up. “You don’t really want me to go either,” she said. “You fuss every time I walk out the door.” I knew that things weren’t supposed to be getting this hot under a shady tree in front of a church. As a young, aspiring counselor, I feared that I was getting in over my head, but having been trained to ask questions and listen, I continued. “What other things do you disagree on?” This time Mary answered. “He wants me to stay home all day and work in the house,” she said. “He gets mad if I go see my mother or go shopping or something.” “I don’t mind her going to see her mother,” he said, “but when I come home, I like to see the house cleaned up. Some weeks, she doesn’t make the bed up for three or four days, and half the time, she hasn’t even started supper. I work hard, and I like to eat when I get home. Besides that, the house is a wreck,” he continued. “The baby’s things are all over the floor, the baby is dirty, and I don’t like filth. She seems to be happy to live in a pigpen. We don’t have very much, and we live in a small mill house, but at least it could be clean.” “What’s wrong with his helping me around the house?” Mary asked. “He acts like a husband shouldn’t do anything around the house. All he wants to do is work and hunt. He expects me to do everything. He even expects me to wash the car.” Thinking that I had better start looking for solutions rather than prying for more disagreements, I looked at Mark and asked, “Mark, when you were dating, before you got married, did you go hunting every Saturday?” “Most Saturdays,” he said, “but I always got home in time to go see her on Saturday night. Most of the time, I’d get home in time to wash my truck before I went to see her. I didn’t like to go see her with a dirty truck.” “Mary, how old were you when you got married?” I asked. “I was eighteen,” she said. “We got married right after I finished high school. Mark graduated a year before me, and he was working.” “During your senior year in high school, how often did Mark come to see you?” I inquired. “He came almost every night,” she said. “In fact, he came in the afternoon and would often stay and have supper with my family. He would help me do my chores around the house and then we’d sit and talk until supper time.” “Mark, what did the two of you do after supper?” I asked. Mark looked up with a sheepish smile and said, “Well, the regular dating stuff, you know.” “But if I had a school project,” Mary said, “he’d help me with it. Sometimes we worked hours on school projects. I was in charge of the Christmas float for the senior class. He helped me for three weeks every afternoon. He was great.” I switched gears and focused on the third area of their disagreement. “Mark, when you were dating, did you go to church with Mary on Sunday nights?” “Yes, I did,” he said. “If I didn’t go to church with her, I couldn’t see her that night. Her father was strict that way.” “He never complained about it,” Mary said. “In fact, he seemed to enjoy it. He even helped us with the Christmas program. After we finished the Christmas float project, we started working on the set for the Christmas program at the church. We spent about two weeks working together on that. He is really talented when it comes to painting and building sets.” I thought I was beginning to see some light, but I wasn’t sure Mark and Mary were seeing it. I turned to Mary and asked, “When you were dating Mark, what convinced you that he really loved you? What made him different from other guys you had dated?” “It was the way he helped me with everything,” she said. “He was so eager to help me. None of the other guys ever expressed any interest in those things, but it seemed natural for Mark. He even helped me wash dishes when he had supper at our house. He was the most wonderful person I had ever met, but after we got married that changed. He didn’t help me at all.” Turning to Mark I asked, “Why do you think you did all those things for and with her before you were married?” “It just seemed natural for me,” he said. “It’s what I would want someone to do for me if she cared about me.” “And why do you think you stopped helping her after you got married?” I asked. “Well, I guess I expected it to be like my family. Dad worked, and Mom took care of things at the house. I never saw my dad vacuum the floor or wash the dishes or do anything around the house. Since Mom didn’t work outside the house, she kept everything spotless, did all the cooking, washing, and ironing. And I guess I just thought that was the way it was supposed to be.” Hoping that Mark was seeing what I was seeing, I asked, “Mark, a moment ago what did you hear Mary say when I asked her what really made her feel loved by you when you were dating?” He responded, “Helping her with things and doing things with her.” Requests give direction to love, but demands stop the flow of love. “So, can you understand,” I continued, “how she could feel unloved when you stopped helping her with things?” His head was bobbing up and down. I continued. “It was a normal thing for you to follow the model of your mother and father in marriage. Almost all of us tend to do that, but your behavior toward Mary was a radical change from your courtship. The one thing that had assured her of your love disappeared.” Then I turned to Mary and asked, “What did you hear Mark say when I asked, ‘Why did you do all of those things to help Mary when you were dating?’” “He said that it came naturally to him,” she replied. “That’s right,” I said, “and he also said that is what he would want someone to do for him if she loved him. He was doing those things for you and with you because in his mind that’s the way anyone shows love. Once you were married and living in your own house, he had expectations of what you would do if you loved him. You would keep the house clean, you would cook, and so on. In brief, you would do things for him to express your love. When he did not see you doing those things, do you understand why he would feel unloved?” Mary’s head was also bobbing now. I continued, “My guess is that the reason you are both so unhappy in your marriage is that neither of you is showing your love by doing things for each other.” Mary said, “I think you are right, and the reason I stopped doing things for him is because I resented his demanding spirit. It was as if he were trying to make me be like his mother.” “You are right,” I said, “and no one likes to be forced to do anything. In fact, love is always freely given. Love cannot be demanded. We can request things of each other, but we must never demand anything. Requests give direction to love, but demands stop the flow of love.” Mark broke in and said, “She’s right, Dr. Chapman. I was demanding and critical of her because I was disappointed in her as a wife. I know I said some cruel things, and I understand how she could be upset with me.” “I think things can be turned around rather easily at this juncture,” I said. I pulled two note cards out of my pocket. “Let’s try something. I want each of you to sit on the steps of the church and make a request list. Mark, I want you to list three or four things that if Mary chose to do them would make you feel loved when you walk into the house in the afternoon. If making the bed is important to you, then put it down. Mary, I want you to make a list of three or four things that you would really like to have Mark’s help in doing, things which, if he chose to do them, would help you know that he loved you.” (I’m big on lists; they force us to think concretely.) After five to six minutes, they handed me their lists. Mark’s list read: Make up the beds every day. Have the baby’s face washed when I get home. Put her shoes in the closet before I get home. Try to have supper at least started before I get home so that we could eat within 30–45 minutes after I get home. I read the list out loud and said to Mark, “I’m understanding you to say that if Mary chooses to do these four things, you will view them as acts of love toward you.” “That’s right,” he said, “if she did those four things, it would go a long way in changing my attitude toward her.” Then I read Mary’s list: I wish he would wash the car every week instead of expecting me to do it. I wish he would change the baby’s diaper after he gets home in the afternoon, especially if I am working on supper. I wish he would vacuum the house for me once a week. I wish he would mow the grass every week in the summer and not let it get so tall that I am ashamed of our yard. I said, “Mary, I am understanding you to say that if Mark chooses to do those four things, you would take his actions as genuine expressions of love toward you.” “That’s right,” she said. “It would be wonderful if he would do those things for me.” “Does this list seem reasonable to you, Mark? Is it feasible for you to do these things?” “Yes,” he said. “Mary, do the things on Mark’s list seem reasonable and feasible to you? Could you do them if you chose to?” “Yes,” she said, “I can do those things. In the past, I have felt overwhelmed because no matter what I did, it was never enough.” “Mark,” I said, “you understand that what I am suggesting is a change from the model of marriage that your mother and father had.” “Oh,” he said, “my father mowed the grass and washed the car.” “But he didn’t change the diapers or vacuum the floor, right?” “Right,” he said. “You don’t have to do these, you understand? If you do them, however, it will be an act of love to Mary.” What we do for each other before marriage is no indication of what we will do after marriage. And to Mary I said, “You understand that you don’t have to do these things, but if you want to express love for Mark, here are four ways that will be meaningful to him. I want to suggest that you try these for two months and see if they help. At the end of two months, you may want to add additional requests to your lists and share them with each other. I would not add more than one request per month, however.” “This really makes sense,” Mary said. “I think you have helped us,” Mark said. They took each other by the hand and walked toward their car. I said to myself out loud, “I think this is what church is all about. I think I am going to enjoy being a counselor.” I have never forgotten the insight I gained under that chinaberry tree. After years of research, I have realized what a unique situation Mark and Mary presented me. Seldom do I meet a couple who both have the same love language. For both Mark and Mary, “acts of service” was their primary love language. Hundreds of individuals can identify with either Mark or Mary and acknowledge that the primary way that they feel loved is by acts of service on the part of their spouse. Putting away shoes, changing a baby’s diaper, washing dishes or a car, vacuuming, or mowing speaks volumes to the individual whose primary love language is acts of service. You may be wondering, If Mark and Mary had the same primary love language, why were they having so much difficulty? The answer lies in the fact that they were speaking different dialects. They were doing things for each other but not the most important things. When they were forced to think concretely, they easily identified their specific dialects. For Mary it was washing the car, changing the baby’s diaper, vacuuming the floor, and mowing the grass, whereas for Mark it was making up the bed, washing the baby’s face, putting the shoes in the closet, and having supper underway when he got home from work. When they started speaking the right dialects, their love tanks began to fill. Since acts of service was their primary love language, learning each other’s specific dialect was relatively easy for them. Before we leave Mark and Mary, I would like to make three other observations. First, they illustrate clearly that what we do for each other before marriage is no indication of what we will do after marriage. Before marriage, we are carried along by the force of the in-love obsession. After marriage, we revert to being the people we were before we “fell in love.” Our actions are influenced by the model of our parents, our own personality, our perceptions of love, our emotions, needs, and desires. Only one thing is certain about our behavior: It will not be the same behavior we exhibited when we were caught up in being “in love.” That leads me to the second truth illustrated by Mark and Mary. Love is a choice and cannot be coerced. Mark and Mary were criticizing each other’s behavior and getting nowhere. Once they decided to make requests of each other rather than demands, their marriage began to turn around. Criticism and demands tend to drive wedges. With enough criticism, you may get acquiescence from your spouse. He may do what you want, but probably it will not be an expression of love. You can give guidance to love by making requests: “I wish you would wash the car, change the baby’s diaper, mow the grass,” but you cannot create the will to love. Each of us must decide daily to love or not to love our spouses. If we choose to love, then expressing it in the way in which our spouse requests will make our love most effective emotionally. There is a third truth, which only the mature lover will be able to hear. My spouse’s criticisms about my behavior provide me with the clearest clue to her primary love language. People tend to criticize their spouse most loudly in the area where they themselves have the deepest emotional need. Their criticism is an ineffective way of pleading for love. If we understand that, it may help us process their criticism in a more productive manner. A wife may say to her husband after he gives her a criticism, “It sounds like that is extremely important to you. Could you explain why it is so crucial?” Criticism often needs clarification. Initiating such a conversation may eventually turn the criticism into a request rather than a demand. Mary’s constant condemnation of Mark’s hunting was not an expression of her hatred for the sport of hunting. She blamed hunting as the thing that kept him from washing the car, vacuuming the house, and mowing the grass. When he learned to meet her need for love by speaking her emotional love language, she became free to support him in his hunting. DOORMAT OR LOVER? “I have served him for twenty years. I have waited on him hand and foot. I have been his doormat while he ignored me, mistreated me, and humiliated me in front of my friends and family. I don’t hate him. I wish him no ill, but I resent him, and I no longer wish to live with him.” That wife has performed acts of service for twenty years, but they have not been expressions of love. They were done out of fear, guilt, and resentment. Due to the sociological changes of the past thirty years, there is no longer a common stereotype of the male and female role in American society. A doormat is an inanimate object. You can wipe your feet on it, step on it, kick it around, or whatever you like. It has no will of its own. It can be your servant but not your lover. When we treat our spouses as objects, we preclude the possibility of love. Manipulation by guilt (“If you were a good spouse, you would do this for me”) is not the language of love. Coercion by fear (“You will do this or you will be sorry”) is alien to love. No person should ever be a doormat. We may allow ourselves to be used, but we are in fact creatures of emotion, thoughts, and desires. And we have the ability to make decisions and take action. Allowing oneself to be used or manipulated by another is not an act of love. It is, in fact, an act of treason. You are allowing him or her to develop inhumane habits. Love says, “I love you too much to let you treat me this way. It is not good for you or me.” OVERCOMING STEREOTYPES Learning the love language of acts of service will require some of us to reexamine our stereotypes of the roles of husbands and wives. Mark was doing what most of us do naturally. He was following the role model of his father and mother, but he wasn’t even doing that well. His father washed the car and mowed the grass. Mark did not, but that was the mental image he had of what a husband should do. He definitely did not picture himself vacuuming floors and changing the baby’s diapers. To his credit, he was willing to break from his stereotype when he realized how important it was to Mary. That is necessary for all of us if our spouse’s primary love language asks something of us that seems inappropriate to our role. Due to the sociological changes of the past thirty years, there is no longer a common stereotype of the male and female role in American society. Yet that does not mean that all stereotypes have been removed. It means rather that the number of stereotypes has been multiplied. Before the days of television, a person’s idea of what a husband or wife should do and how he or she should relate was influenced primarily by one’s own parents. With the pervasiveness of television and the proliferation of single-parent families, however, role models are often influenced by forces outside the home. Whatever your perceptions, chances are your spouse perceives marital roles somewhat differently than you do. A willingness to examine and change stereotypes is necessary in order to express love more effectively. Remember, there are no rewards for maintaining stereotypes, but there are tremendous benefits to meeting the emotional needs of your spouse. Recently a wife said to me, “Dr. Chapman, I am going to send all of my friends to your seminar.” “And why would you do that?” I inquired. “Because it has radically changed our marriage,” she said. “Before the seminar, Bob never helped me with anything. We both started our careers right after college, but it was always my role to do everything at the house. It was as if it never crossed his mind to help me with anything. After the seminar, he started asking me, ‘What can I do to help you this evening?’ It was amazing. At first, I couldn’t believe it was real, but it has persisted for three years now. “I’ll have to admit, there were some trying and humorous times in those early weeks because he didn’t know how to do anything. The first time he did the laundry, he used undiluted bleach instead of regular detergent. Our blue towels came out with white polka dots. Then there was the first time he used the garbage disposal. It sounded strange, and shortly afterward soap bubbles started emerging from the drain of the adjoining sink. He didn’t know what was happening until I turned the garbage disposal off, reached my hand inside, and retrieved the remains of a new bar of soap, now the size of a quarter. But he was loving me in my language, and my tank was filling up. Now he knows how to do everything around the house and is always helping me. We have much more time together because I don’t have to work all the time. Believe me, I have learned his language, and I keep his tank full.” Is it really that simple? Simple? Yes. Easy? No. Bob had to work hard at tearing down the stereotype with which he had lived for thirty-five years. It didn’t come easily, but he would tell you that learning the primary love language of your spouse and choosing to speak it makes a tremendous difference in the emotional climate of a marriage. Now, let’s move on to love language number five. NOTES 1. John 13:3–17. 2. Galatians 5:13. OceanofPDF.com If your spouse’s love language is Acts of Service: 1. Make a list of all the requests your spouse has made of you over the past few weeks. Select one of these each week and do it as an expression of love. 2. Cut out some heart-shaped note cards and print the following: “Today I will show my love for you by…” Complete the sentence with one of the following: mowing the lawn, vacuuming the floor, washing dishes, taking the dog for a walk, cleaning the fish bowl, etc. Give your spouse a love note accompanied by the act of service every three days for a month. 3. Ask your spouse to make a list of ten things he or she would like for you to do during the next month. Then ask your spouse to prioritize those by numbering them 1–10, with 1 being the most important and 10 being least important. Use this list to plan your strategy for a month of love. (Get ready to live with a happy spouse.) 4. While your spouse is away, get the children to help you with some act of service for him. When he walks in the door, join the children in shouting “Surprise! We love you!” Then share your act of service. 5. What one act of service has your spouse nagged about consistently? Why not decide to see the nag as a tag? Your spouse is tagging this as really important to him or her. If you choose to do it as an expression of love, it is worth more than a thousand roses. 6. If your spouse’s requests for acts of service come across as nags or put-downs, try writing them in words that would be less offensive to you. Share this revised wording with your spouse. For example, “Honey, I love you so much. You are a hardworking man and I really appreciate you. I’d love to thank you in advance for mowing the lawn this week before Thursday when Mary and Bob come over for dinner.” Your husband might even respond: “Where is the lawn mower, I can’t wait!” Try it and see. 7. Do some major acts of service like washing the car, cooking a meal, painting a bedroom, or washing the deck, and then post a sign that reads, “To (spouse’s name) with love,” and sign your name. 8. If you have more money than time, hire someone to do the acts of service that you know your spouse would like for you to do, such as the lawn, the housecleaning, the car washing, the laundry. If you take the responsibility for getting it done, you will be speaking love even when you are away. 9. Ask your spouse to tell you the daily acts of service that would really speak love to him or her. These might include such things as putting your dirty clothes in the hamper, getting the hairs out of the sink, hanging up your clothes at night, closing the door when you go outside, preparing a meal, and washing the dishes. Seek to work these into your daily schedule. “Little things” really do mean a lot. 10. Periodically ask your spouse, “If I could do one special act of service this week, what would you request?” If possible, do it and watch your spouse’s love tank fill up! OceanofPDF.com OceanofPDF.com chapter eight OceanofPDF.com Love Language #5 PHYSICAL TOUCH We have long known that physical touch is a way of communicating emotional love. Numerous research projects in the area of child development have made that conclusion: Babies who are held, hugged, and kissed develop a healthier emotional life than those who are left for long periods of time without physical contact. The importance of touching children is not a modern idea. In the first century, the Hebrews living in Palestine, recognizing Jesus as a great teacher, brought their children to Him “to have him touch them.”1 You may remember that Jesus’ disciples rebuked those parents, thinking that Jesus was too busy for such frivolous activity. But the Scriptures say that Jesus was indignant with the disciples and said, “‘Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these. I tell you the truth, anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God like a little child will never enter it.’ And he took the children in his arms, put his hands on them and blessed them.”2 Wise parents, in any culture, are touching parents. Physical touch is also a powerful vehicle for communicating marital love. Holding hands, kissing, embracing, and sexual intercourse are all ways of communicating emotional love to one’s spouse. For some individuals, physical touch is their primary love language. Without it, they feel unloved. With it, their emotional tank is filled, and they feel secure in the love of their spouse. The old-timers used to say, “The way to a man’s heart is through his stomach.” Many a man has been “fattened for the kill” by women who have believed this philosophy. The old-timers, of course, were not thinking of the physical heart but of man’s romantic center. It would be more accurate to say, “The way to some men’s hearts is through their stomachs.” I remember the husband who said, “Dr. Chapman, my wife is a gourmet cook. She spends hours in the kitchen. She makes these elaborate meals. Me? I’m a meat and potatoes man. I tell her she is wasting her time. I like simple food. She gets hurt and says I don’t appreciate her. I do appreciate her. I just wish she would make it easy on herself and not spend so much time with the elaborate meals. Then we would have more time together, and she would have the energy to do some other things.” Obviously, “other things” were closer to his heart than fancy foods. That man’s wife was a frustrated lover. In the family in which she grew up, her mother was an excellent cook and her father appreciated her efforts. She remembers hearing her father say to her mother, “When I sit down to meals like this, it’s so easy for me to love you.” Her father was a wellspring of positive comments to her mother about her cooking. In private and in public, he praised her culinary skills. That daughter learned well from her mother’s model. The problem is that she is not married to her father. Her husband has a different love language. In my conversation with this husband, it didn’t take long to discover that “other things” to him meant sex. When his wife was sexually responsive, he felt secure in her love. But when, for whatever reason, she withdrew from him sexually, all of her culinary skills could not convince him that she really loved him. He did not object to the fancy meals, but in his heart they could never substitute for what he considered to be “love.” Sexual intercourse, however, is only one dialect in the love language of physical touch. Of the five senses, touching, unlike the other four, is not limited to one localized area of the body. Tiny tactile receptors are located throughout the body. When those receptors are touched or pressed, nerves carry impulses to the brain. The brain interprets these impulses and we perceive that the thing that touched us is warm or cold, hard or soft. It causes pain or pleasure. We may also interpret it as loving or hostile. Physical touch can make or break a relationship. It can communicate hate or love. Some parts of the body are more sensitive than others. The difference is due to the fact that the tiny tactile receptors are not scattered evenly over the body but arranged in clusters. Thus, the tip of the tongue is highly sensitive to touch whereas the back of the shoulders is the least sensitive. The tips of the fingers and the tip of the nose are other extremely sensitive areas. Our purpose, however, is not to understand the neurological basis of the sense of touch but rather its psychological importance. Physical touch can make or break a relationship. It can communicate hate or love. To the person whose primary love language is physical touch, the message will be far louder than the words “I hate you” or “I love you.” A slap in the face is detrimental to any child, but it is devastating to a child whose primary love language is touch. A tender hug communicates love to any child, but it shouts love to the child whose primary love language is physical touch. The same is true of adults. In marriage, the touch of love may take many forms. Since touch receptors are located throughout the body, lovingly touching your spouse almost anywhere can be an expression of love. That does not mean that all touches are created equal. Some will bring more pleasure to your spouse than others. Your best instructor is your spouse, of course. After all, she is the one you are seeking to love. She knows best what she perceives as a loving touch. Don’t insist on touching her in your way and in your time. Learn to speak her love dialect. Your spouse may find some touches uncomfortable or irritating. To insist on continuing those touches is to communicate the opposite of love. It is saying that you are not sensitive to her needs and that you care little about her perceptions of what is pleasant. Don’t make the mistake of believing that the touch that brings pleasure to you will also bring pleasure to her. Love touches may be explicit and demand your full attention such as in a back rub or sexual foreplay, culminating in intercourse. On the other hand, love touches may be implicit and require only a moment, such as putting your hand on his shoulder as you pour a cup of coffee or rubbing your body against him as you pass in the kitchen. Explicit love touches obviously take more time, not only in actual touching but in developing your understanding of how to communicate love to your spouse this way. If a back massage communicates love loudly to your spouse, then the time, money, and energy you spend in learning to be a good masseur or masseuse will be well invested. If sexual intercourse is your mate’s primary dialect, reading about and discussing the art of sexual lovemaking will enhance your expression of love. Implicit love touches require little time but much thought, especially if physical touch is not your primary love language and if you did not grow up in a “touching family.” Sitting close to each other on the couch as you watch your favorite television program requires no additional time but may communicate your love loudly. Touching your spouse as you walk through the room where he is sitting takes only a moment. Touching each other when you leave the house and again when you return may involve only a brief kiss or hug but will speak volumes to your spouse. Once you discover that physical touch is the primary love language of your spouse, you are limited only by your imagination on ways to express love. Coming up with new ways and places to touch can be an exciting challenge. If you have not been an “under-the-table toucher,” you might find that it will add a spark to your dining out. If you are not accustomed to holding hands in public, you may find that you can fill your spouse’s emotional love tank as you stroll through the parking lot. If you don’t normally kiss as soon as you get into the car together, you may find that it will greatly enhance your travels. Hugging your spouse before she goes shopping may not only express love, it may bring her home sooner. Try new touches in new places and let your spouse give you feedback on whether he finds it pleasurable or not. Remember, he has the final word. You are learning to speak his language. THE BODY IS FOR TOUCHING Whatever there is of me resides in my body. To touch my body is to touch me. To withdraw from my body is to distance yourself from me emotionally. In our society shaking hands is a way of communicating openness and social closeness to another individual. When on rare occasions one man refuses to shake hands with another, it communicates a message that things are not right in their relationship. All societies have some form of physical touching as a means of social greeting. The average American male may not feel comfortable with the European bear hug and kiss, but in Europe that serves the same function as our shaking hands. There are appropriate and inappropriate ways to touch members of the opposite sex in every society. The recent attention to sexual harassment has highlighted the inappropriate ways. Within marriage, however, what is appropriate and inappropriate touching is determined by the couple themselves, within certain broad guidelines. Physical abuse is of course deemed inappropriate by society, and social organizations have been formed to help “the battered wife and the battered husband.” Clearly our bodies are for touching, but not for abuse. If your spouse’s primary love language is physical touch, nothing is more important than holding her as she cries. This age is characterized as the age of sexual openness and freedom. With that freedom, we have demonstrated that the open marriage where both spouses are free to have sexual intimacies with other individuals is fanciful. Those who do not object on moral grounds eventually object on emotional grounds. Something about our need for intimacy and love does not allow us to give our spouse such freedom. The emotional pain is deep and intimacy evaporates when we are aware that our spouse is involved with someone else sexually. Counselors’ files are filled with records of husbands and wives who are trying to grapple with the emotional trauma of an unfaithful spouse. That trauma, however, is compounded for the individual whose primary love language is physical touch. That for which he longs so deeply—love expressed by physical touch—is now being given to another. His emotional love tank is not only empty; it has been riddled by an explosion. It will take massive repairs for those emotional needs to be met. CRISIS AND PHYSICAL TOUCH Almost instinctively in a time of crisis, we hug one another. Why? Because physical touch is a powerful communicator of love. In a time of crisis, more than anything, we need to feel loved. We cannot always change events, but we can survive if we feel loved. All marriages will experience crises. The death of parents is inevitable. Automobile accidents cripple and kill thousands each year. Disease is no respecter of persons. Disappointments are a part of life. The most important thing you can do for your mate in a time of crisis is to love him or her. If your spouse’s primary love language is physical touch, nothing is more important than holding her as she cries. Your words may mean little, but your physical touch will communicate that you care. Crises provide a unique opportunity for expressing love. Your tender touches will be remembered long after the crisis has passed. Your failure to touch may never be forgotten. Since my first visit to West Palm Beach, Florida, many years ago, I have always welcomed invitations to lead marriage seminars in that area. It was on one such occasion that I met Pete and Patsy. They were not native to Florida (few are), but they had lived there for twenty years and called West Palm Beach home. My seminar was sponsored by a local church, and as we drove from the airport, the pastor informed me that Pete and Patsy had requested that I spend the night at their house. I tried to act excited, but knew from experience that such a request usually meant a late-night counseling session. However, I was to be surprised in more than one way that night. As the pastor and I entered the spacious, well-decorated, Spanish-style house, I was introduced to Patsy and to Charlie, the family cat. As I looked around the house, I had the hunch that either Pete’s business had done very well, his father had left him a huge inheritance, or he was hopelessly in debt. Later I discovered that my first hunch was correct. When I was shown the guest room, I observed that Charlie, the cat, was making himself at home, stretched across the bed where I was to be sleeping. I thought, This cat has it made. Pete came home shortly, and we had a delightful snack together and agreed that we would have dinner after the seminar. Several hours later while sharing dinner, I kept waiting for the counseling session to begin. It never did. Instead, I found Pete and Patsy to be a healthy, happily married couple. For a counselor, that is an oddity. I was eager to discover their secret, but being extremely tired and knowing that Pete and Patsy were going to drive me to the airport the next day, I decided to do my probing when I was feeling more alert. They showed me to my room. Charlie, the cat, was nice enough to leave the room when I got there. Bounding from the bed, he headed off to another bedroom and within minutes, I was in bed. After a brief reflection of the day, I was entering the twilight zone. Just before losing touch with reality, the door to my bedroom popped open and a monster leaped on top of me! I had heard of Florida’s scorpions, but this was no small scorpion. Without time to think, I grabbed the sheet that was draped over my body and with one bloodcurdling shriek, flung the monster against the far wall. I heard his body hit the wall and then silence. Pete and Patsy came running down the hallway, turned on the light, and we all looked at Charlie lying still. Pete and Patsy have never forgotten me, and I have never forgotten them. Charlie did revive in a few minutes, but he did not come back to my room. In fact, Pete and Patsy told me later that Charlie never went back to that bedroom again. After my abuse of Charlie, I wasn’t sure whether Pete and Patsy would still want to take me to the airport the next day or if they would have any further interest in me. However, my fears vanished when, after the seminar, Pete said, “Dr. Chapman, I have been to many seminars, but I have never heard anyone describe Patsy and me as clearly as you. That love language idea is true. I can’t wait to tell you our story!” A few minutes after saying good-byes to those attending the seminar, we were in the car for our forty-five-minute drive to the airport. And Pete and Patsy began to tell me their story. In the early years of their marriage, they had tremendous difficulties. But some twenty-two years earlier, all of their friends agreed that they were the “perfect couple.” Pete and Patsy certainly believed that their marriage was “made in heaven.” They had grown up in the same community, attended the same church, and graduated from the same high school. Their parents had similar lifestyles and values. Pete and Patsy enjoyed many of the same things. They both liked tennis and boating, and they often talked about how many interests they held in common. They seemed to possess all the commonalities that are supposed to assure fewer conflicts in marriage. They began dating in their senior year in high school. They attended separate colleges but managed to see each other at least once a month and sometimes more often. By the end of their freshman year, they were convinced that they were “meant for each other.” They both agreed, however, to finish college before marriage. For the next three years, they enjoyed an idyllic dating relationship. One weekend, he would visit her campus; the following weekend, she would visit his campus; the third weekend, they would go home to visit the folks but spend most of the weekend with each other. The fourth weekend of each month, they agreed not to see each other, thus giving each of them freedom to develop individual interests. Except for special events such as birthdays, they consistently followed that schedule. Three weeks after he received his degree in business and she a degree in sociology, they were married. Two months later, they moved to Florida where Pete had been offered a good job. They were two thousand miles from their nearest relative. They could enjoy a “honeymoon” forever. The first three months were exciting—moving, finding a new apartment, enjoying life together. The only conflict they could remember was over washing dishes. Pete thought he had a more efficient way to complete that chore. Patsy, however, was not open to his idea. Eventually, they had agreed that whoever washed the dishes could do it his/her way, and that conflict was resolved. They were about six months into the marriage when Patsy began to feel that Pete was withdrawing from her. He was working longer hours, and when he was at home, he spent considerable time with the computer. When she finally expressed her feelings that he was avoiding her, Pete told her that he was not avoiding her but simply trying to stay on top of his job. He said that she didn’t understand the pressure he was under and how important it was that he do well in his first year on the job. Patsy wasn’t pleased, but she decided to give him space. Patsy began to develop friendships with other wives who lived in the apartment complex. Often when she knew Pete was going to work late she would go shopping with one of her friends instead of going straight home after work. Sometimes she was not at home when Pete arrived. That annoyed him greatly, and he accused her of being thoughtless and irresponsible. Patsy retorted, “This is the pot calling the kettle black. Who is irresponsible? You don’t even call me and let me know when you will be home. How can I be here for you when I don’t even know when you will be here? And when you are here, you spend all your time with that dumb computer. You don’t need a wife; all you need is a computer!” To which Pete loudly responded, “I do need a wife. Don’t you understand? That’s the whole point. I do need a wife.” But Patsy did not understand. She was extremely confused. In her search for answers, she went to the public library and checked out several books on marriage. “Marriage is not supposed to be this way,” she reasoned. “I have to find an answer to our situation.” When Pete went to the computer room, Patsy would pick up her book. In fact on many evenings, she read until midnight. On his way to bed, Pete would notice her and make sarcastic comments such as, “If you read that much in college, you would have made straight A’s.” Patsy would respond, “I am not in college. I’m in marriage, and right now, I’d be satisfied with a C.” Pete went to bed without so much as a second glance. At the end of the first year, Patsy was desperate. At the end of the first year, Patsy was desperate. She had mentioned it before, but this time she calmly said to Pete, “I am going to find a marriage counselor. Do you want to go with me?” But Pete answered, “I don’t need a marriage counselor. I don’t have time to go to a marriage counselor. I can’t afford a marriage counselor.” “Then I’ll go alone,” said Patsy. “Fine, you are the one who needs counseling anyway.” The conversation was over. Patsy felt totally alone, but the next week she made an appointment with a marriage counselor. After three sessions, the counselor called Pete and asked if he would be willing to come in to talk about his perspective on their marriage. Pete agreed, and the process of healing began. Six months later, they left the counselor’s office with a new marriage. I said to Pete and Patsy, “What did you learn in counseling that turned your marriage around?” “In essence, Dr. Chapman,” Pete said, “we learned to speak each other’s love language. The counselor did not use that term, but as you gave the lecture today, the lights came on. My mind raced back to our counseling experience, and I realized that’s exactly what happened to us. We finally learned to speak each other’s love language.” “So what is your love language, Pete?” I asked. “Physical touch,” he said without hesitation. “Physical touch for sure,” said Patsy. “And yours, Patsy?” “Quality time, Dr. Chapman. That’s what I was crying for in those days while he was spending all his time with his job and his computer.” “How did you learn that physical touch was Pete’s love language?” “It took a while,” Patsy said. “Little by little, it began to come out in the counseling. At first, I don’t think Pete even realized it.” “She’s right,” Pete said. “I was so insecure in my own sense of self-worth that it took forever for me to be willing to identify and acknowledge that her lack of touch had caused me to withdraw. I never told her that I wanted to be touched, although I was crying inside for her to reach out and touch me. In our dating relationship, I had always taken the initiative in hugging, kissing, and holding hands, but she had always been responsive. I felt that she loved me, but after we got married, there were times that I reached out to her physically and she was not responsive. Maybe with her new job responsibilities she was too tired. I don’t know, but I took it personally. I felt that she didn’t find me attractive. Then I decided I would not take the initiative because I didn’t want to be rejected. So I waited to see how long it would be before she’d initiate a kiss or a touch or sexual intercourse. Once I waited for six weeks before she touched me at all. I found it unbearable. My withdrawal was to stay away from the pain I felt when I was with her. I felt rejected, unwanted, and unloved.” Then Patsy said, “I had no idea that that was what he was feeling. I knew that he was not reaching out to me. We were not kissing and hugging as we had done earlier, but I just assumed that since we were married, that was not as important to him now. I knew that he was under pressure with his job. I had no idea that he wanted me to take the initiative. “He’s right. I would go weeks without touching him. It didn’t cross my mind. I was preparing meals, keeping the house clean, doing his laundry, and trying to stay out of his way. I honestly didn’t know what else I could be doing. I could not understand his withdrawal or his lack of attention to me. It’s not that I dislike touching; it’s just that it was never that important to me. Spending time with me is what made me feel loved and appreciated, giving me attention. It really didn’t matter whether we hugged or kissed. As long as he gave me his attention, I felt loved. “It took us a long time to discover the root of the problem, but once we discovered that we were not meeting each other’s emotional need for love, we began to turn things around. Once I began to take the initiative in giving him physical touch, it’s amazing what happened. His personality, his spirit changed drastically. I had a new husband. Once he became convinced that I really did love him, then he began to become more responsive to my needs.” “Does he still have a computer at home?” I asked. “Yes,” she said, “but he seldom uses it and when he does, it’s all right because I know that he is not ‘married’ to the computer. We do so many things together that it’s easy for me to give him the freedom to use the computer when he wants to.” “What amazed me at the seminar today,” Pete said, “was the way your lecture on love languages carried me back all these years to that experience. You said in twenty minutes what it took us six months to learn.” “Well,” I said, “it’s not how fast you learn it but how well you learn it that matters. And obviously, you have learned it well.” Pete is only one of many individuals for whom physical touch is the primary love language. Emotionally, they yearn for their spouse to reach out and touch them physically. Running the hand through the hair, giving a back rub, holding hands, embracing, sexual intercourse—all of those and other “love touches” are the emotional lifeline of the person for whom physical touch is the primary love language. NOTES 1. Mark 10:13. 2. Mark 10:14–16. OceanofPDF.com If your spouse’s love language is Physical Touch: 1. As you walk from the car to the shopping mall, reach out and hold your spouse’s hand. (Unless, of course, you have three preschool children with you.) 2. While eating together, let your knee or foot drift over and touch your spouse. Be careful you are not rubbing the dog. 3. Walk up to your spouse and say, “Have I told you lately that I love you?” Take her in your arms and hug her while you rub her back and continue. “You are the greatest!” (Resist the temptation to rush to the bedroom.) Untangle yourself and move on to the next thing. 4. While your spouse is seated, walk up behind her and initiate a shoulder massage. Continue for five minutes unless your spouse begs you to stop. 5. If you sit together in church, when the minister calls for prayer reach over and hold your spouse’s hand. 6. Initiate sex by giving your spouse a foot massage. Continue to other parts of the body as long as it brings pleasure to your spouse. 7. Run the water in the Jacuzzi and announce to your spouse that you are looking for a partner to join you. 8. Riding down the road together, reach over and touch your spouse on the leg, stomach, arm, hand, or…If he or she says “stop!” by all means put on the brakes. 9. When family or friends are visiting, touch your spouse in their presence. A hug, running your hand along his or her arm, putting your arm around his as you stand talking, or simply placing your hand on her shoulder can earn double emotional points. It says, “Even with all these people in our house, I still see you.” 10. When your spouse arrives at home, meet him or her one step earlier than usual and give your mate a big hug. If you normally meet at the door, go to the garage. If you normally meet in the garage, go to the street. Then, as the car turns into the driveway, stop your mate, lean into the lowered window, and give him or her a kiss. If you normally meet at the street, hide in the parking area and step out as your mate opens the door and give him or her a hug. (Be sure your mate sees you before you hug him or her.) OceanofPDF.com OceanofPDF.com chapter nine OceanofPDF.com DISCOVERING YOUR PRIMARY LOVE LANGUAGE Discovering the primary love language of your spouse is essential if you are to keep his/her emotional love tank full. But first, let’s make sure you know your own love language. Having heard the five emotional love languages, Words of Affirmation Quality Time Receiving Gifts Acts of Service Physical Touch some individuals will know instantaneously their own primary love language and that of their spouse. For others, it will not be that easy. Some are like Bob from Parma Heights, Ohio, who after hearing the five emotional love languages said to me, “I don’t know. It seems that two of those are just about equal for me.” “Which two?” I inquired. “‘Physical Touch’ and ‘Words of Affirmation,’” Bob responded. “By ‘Physical Touch,’ what do you mean?” “Well, mainly sex,” Bob replied. I probed a little further, asking, “Do you enjoy your wife running her hands through your hair, or giving you a back rub, or holding hands, or kissing and hugging you at times when you are not having sexual intercourse?” “Those things are fine,” said Bob. “I am not going to turn them down, but the main thing is sexual intercourse. That’s when I know that she really loves me.” Leaving the subject of physical touch for a moment, I turned to affirming words and asked, “When you say that ‘Words of Affirmation’ are also important, what kinds of statements do you find most helpful?” “Almost anything if it is positive,” Bob replied. “When she tells me how good I look, how smart I am, what a hard worker I am, when she expresses appreciation for the things I do around the house, when she makes positive comments about my taking time with the children, when she tells me she loves me—all of those things really mean a lot to me.” “Did you receive those kinds of comments from your parents when you were growing up?” “Not very often,” Bob said. “Most of what I got from my parents were critical or demanding words. I guess that’s why I appreciated Carol so much in the first place, because she gave me words of affirmation.” “Let me ask you this. If Carol were meeting your sexual needs, that is, if you were having quality sexual intercourse as often as you desire, but she was giving you negative words, making critical remarks, sometimes putting you down in front of others, do you think you would feel loved by her?” “I don’t think so,” he replied. “I think I would feel betrayed and deeply hurt. I think I would be depressed.” “Bob,” I said, “I think we have just discovered that your primary love language is ‘Words of Affirmation.’ Sexual intercourse is extremely important to you and to your sense of intimacy with Carol, but her words of affirmation are more important to you emotionally. If she were, in fact, verbally critical of you all the time and put you down in front of other people, the time may come when you would no longer desire to have sexual intercourse with her because she would be a source of deep pain to you.” Bob had made the mistake common to many men: assuming that “Physical Touch” is their primary love language because they desire sexual intercourse so intensely. For the male, sexual desire is physically based. That is, the desire for sexual intercourse is stimulated by the buildup of sperm cells and seminal fluid in the seminal vesicles. When the seminal vesicles are full, there is a physical push for release. Thus, the male’s desire for sexual intercourse has a physical root. Most sexual problems in marriage have little to do with physical technique but everything to do with meeting emotional needs. For the female, sexual desire is rooted in her emotions, not her physiology. There is nothing physically that builds up and pushes her to have intercourse. Her desire is emotionally based. If she feels loved and admired and appreciated by her husband, then she has a desire to be physically intimate with him. But without the emotional closeness she may have little physical desire. Because the male is physically pushed to have sexual release on a somewhat regular basis, he may automatically assume that that is his primary love language. But if he does not enjoy physical touch at other times and in nonsexual ways, it may not be his love language at all. Sexual desire is quite different from his emotional need to feel loved. That doesn’t mean that sexual intercourse is unimportant to him—it is extremely important—but sexual intercourse alone will not meet his need to feel loved. His wife must speak his primary emotional love language as well. When, in fact, his wife speaks his primary love language and his emotional love tank is full, and he speaks her primary love language and her emotional tank is full, the sexual aspect of their relationship will take care of itself. Most sexual problems in marriage have little to do with physical technique but everything to do with meeting emotional needs. After further conversation and reflection, Bob said, “You know, I think you are right. ‘Words of Affirmation’ is definitely my primary love language. When she has been cutting and critical of me verbally, I tend to withdraw from her sexually and fantasize about other women. But when she tells me how much she appreciates me and admires me, my natural sexual desires are turned toward her.” Bob had made a significant discovery in our brief conversation. What is your primary love language? What makes you feel most loved by your spouse? What do you desire above all else? If the answer to those questions does not leap to your mind immediately, perhaps it will help to look at the negative use of love languages. What does your spouse do or say or fail to do or say that hurts you deeply? If, for example, your deepest pain is the critical, judgmental words of your spouse, then perhaps your love language is “Words of Affirmation.” If your primary love language is used negatively by your spouse—that is, he does the opposite—it will hurt you more deeply than it would hurt someone else because not only is he neglecting to speak your primary love language, he is actually using that language as a knife to your heart. Iremember Mary in Kitchener, Ontario, who said, “Dr. Chapman, what hurts me most is that Ron never lifts a hand to help me around the house. He watches television while I do all the work. I don’t understand how he could do that if he really loved me.” Mary’s deepest hurt, mainly that Ron did not help her do things around the house, was the clue to her primary love language—“Acts of Service.” If it grieves you deeply that your spouse seldom gives you a gift for any occasion, then perhaps your primary love language is “Receiving Gifts.” If your deepest hurt is that your spouse seldom gives you quality time, then that is your primary love language. Another approach to discovering your primary love language is to look back over your marriage and ask, “What have I most often requested of my spouse?” Whatever you have most requested is probably in keeping with your primary love language. Those requests have probably been interpreted by your spouse as nagging. They have been, in fact, your efforts to secure emotional love from your spouse. Elizabeth, who lived in Maryville, Indiana, used that approach in discovering her primary love language. She said to me at the conclusion of a seminar session, “Whenever I look back over the last ten years of my marriage and ask myself what have I most requested of Peter, my love language becomes obvious. I have requested ‘Quality Time’ most often. Over and over again, I have asked him if we could go on a picnic, take a weekend together away, shut the TV off for just an hour and talk with each other, take a walk together, and on and on. I have felt neglected and unloved because seldom did he ever respond to my request. He gave me nice gifts for my birthday and special occasions and wondered why I was not excited about them. “During your seminar,” she continued, “the lights came on for both of us. During the break, my husband apologized for being so dense through the years and so resistant to my requests. He has promised me that things will be different in the future, and I believe they will.” Another way to discover your primary love language is to examine what you do or say to express love to your spouse. Chances are what you are doing for her is what you wish she would do for you. If you are constantly doing “Acts of Service” for your spouse, perhaps (although not always) that is your love language. If “Words of Affirmation” speak love to you, chances are you will use them in speaking love to your spouse. Thus, you may discover your own language by asking, “How do I consciously express my love to my spouse?” But remember, that approach is only a possible clue to your love language; it is not an absolute indicator. For example, the husband who learned from his father to express love to his wife by giving her nice gifts expresses his love to his wife by doing what his father did, yet “Receiving Gifts” is not his primary love language. He is simply doing what he was trained to do by his father. Spend some time writing down what you think is your primary love language. Then list the other four in order of importance. I have suggested three ways to discover your own primary love language. 1. What does your spouse do or fail to do that hurts you most deeply? The opposite of what hurts you most is probably your love language. 2. What have you most often requested of your spouse? The thing you have most often requested is likely the thing that would make you feel most loved. 3. In what way do you regularly express love to your spouse? Your method of expressing love may be an indication that that would also make you feel loved. Using those three approaches will probably enable you to determine your primary love language. If two languages seem to be equal for you, that is, both speak loudly to you, then perhaps you are bilingual. If so, you make it easier on your spouse. Now he or she has two choices, either of which will strongly communicate love to you. Two kinds of people may have difficulty discovering their primary love language. The first is the individual whose emotional love tank has been full for a long time. Her spouse has expressed love in many ways, and she is not certain which of those ways makes her feel most loved. She simply knows that she is loved. The second is the individual whose love tank has been empty for so long that he doesn’t remember what makes him feel loved. In either case, go back to the experience of falling in love and ask yourself, “What did I like about my spouse in those days? What did he do or say that made me desire to be with him?” If you can conjure up those memories, it will give you some idea of your primary love language. Another approach would be to ask yourself, “What would be an ideal spouse to me? If I could have the perfect mate, what would she be like?” Your picture of a perfect mate should give you some idea of your primary love language. Having said all of that, let me suggest that you spend some time writing down what you think is your primary love language. Then list the other four in order of importance. Also write down what you think is the primary love language of your spouse. You may also list the other four in order of importance if you wish. Sit down with your spouse and discuss what you guessed to be his/her primary love language. Then tell each other what you consider to be your own primary love language. Once you have shared that information, I suggest that you play the following game three times a week for three weeks. The game is called “Tank Check,” and it is played like this. When you come home, one of you says to the other, “On a scale of zero to ten, how is your love tank tonight?” Zero means empty, and 10 means “I am full of love and can’t handle any more.” You give a reading on your emotional love tank—10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, or 0, indicating how full it is. Your spouse says, “What could I do to help fill it?” Then you make a suggestion—something you would like your spouse to do or say that evening. To the best of his ability, he will respond to your request. Then you repeat the process in the reverse order so that both of you have the opportunity to do a reading on your love tank and to make a suggestion toward filling it. If you play the game for three weeks, you will be hooked on it, and it can be a playful way of stimulating love expressions in your marriage. One husband said to me, “I don’t like that love tank game. I played it with my wife. I came home and said to her, ‘On a scale of zero to ten, how’s your love tank tonight?’ She said, ‘About seven.’ I asked, ‘What could I do to help fill it?’ She said, ‘The greatest thing you could do for me tonight is to do the laundry.’ I said, ‘Love and laundry? I don’t get it.’” I said, “That’s the problem. Perhaps you don’t understand your wife’s love language. What’s your primary love language?” Without hesitation he said, “Physical touch, and especially the sexual part of the marriage.” “Listen to me carefully,” I said. “The love you feel when your wife expresses love by physical touch is the same love your wife feels when you do the laundry.” “Bring on the laundry,” he shouted. “I’ll wash the clothes every night if it makes her feel that good.” Incidentally, if you have still not discovered your primary love language, keep records on the tank check game. When your spouse says, “What could I do to help fill your tank?” your suggestions will likely cluster around your primary love language. You may request things from all five love languages, but you will have more requests centering on your primary love language. Perhaps some of you are saying in your minds what Raymond and Helen said to me in Zion, Illinois. “Dr. Chapman, all that sounds fine and wonderful, but what if the love language of your spouse is something that just doesn’t come naturally for you?” I’ll discuss my answer in chapter 10. OceanofPDF.com OceanofPDF.com chapter ten OceanofPDF.com LOVE ISA CHOICE How can we speak each other’s love language when we are full of hurt, anger, and resentment over past failures? The answer to that question lies in the essential nature of our humanity. We are creatures of choice. That means that we have the capacity to make poor choices, which all of us have done. We have spoken critical words, and we have done hurtful things. We are not proud of those choices, although they may have seemed justified at the moment. Poor choices in the past don’t mean that we must make them in the future. Instead we can say, “I’m sorry. I know I have hurt you, but I would like to make the future different. I would like to love you in your language. I would like to meet your needs.” I have seen marriages rescued from the brink of divorce when couples make the choice to love. Love doesn’t erase the past, but it makes the future different. When we choose active expressions of love in the primary love language of our spouse, we create an emotional climate where we can deal with our past conflicts and failures. Brent was in my office, stone-faced and unfeeling. He had come not by his own initiative, but at my request. A week earlier his wife, Becky, had been sitting in the same chair, weeping uncontrollably. Between her outbursts of tears, she managed to verbalize that Brent had told her that he no longer loved her and that he was leaving. She was devastated. When she regained her composure she said, “We have both worked so hard the last two or three years. I knew that we were not spending as much time together as we used to, but I thought we were working for a common goal. I cannot believe what he is saying. He has always been such a kind and caring person. He is such a good father to our children.” She continued, “How could he do this to us?” I listened as she described their twelve years of marriage. It was a story I had heard many times before. They had an exciting courtship, got married at the height of the “in love experience,” had the typical adjustments in the early days of marriage, and pursued the American dream. In due time, they came down off the emotional high of the “in love experience” but did not learn to speak each other’s love language sufficiently. She had lived with a love tank only half full for the last several years, but she had received enough expressions of love to make her think that everything was OK. However, his love tank was empty. I told Becky that I would see if Brent would talk with me. I told Brent on the phone, “As you know, Becky came to see me and told me about her struggle with what is happening in the marriage. I want to help her, but in order to do so, I need to know what you are thinking.” He agreed without hesitation, and now he sat in my office. His outward appearance was in stark contrast to Becky’s. She had been weeping uncontrollably, but he was stoic. I had the impression, however, that his weeping had taken place weeks or perhaps months ago and that it had been an inward weeping. The story Brent told confirmed my hunch. “I just don’t love her anymore,” he said. “I haven’t loved her for a long time. I don’t want to hurt her, but we are not close. Our relationship has become empty. I don’t enjoy being with her anymore. I don’t know what happened. I wish it were different, but I don’t have any feelings for her.” Brent was thinking and feeling what hundreds of thousands of husbands have thought and felt through the years. It’s the “I don’t love her anymore” mind-set that gives men the emotional freedom to seek love with someone else. The same is true for wives who use the same excuse. Isympathized with Brent, for I have been there. Thousands of husbands and wives have been there—emotionally empty, wanting to do the right thing, not wanting to hurt anyone, but being pushed by their emotional needs to seek love outside the marriage. Fortunately, I had discovered in the earlier years of my own marriage the difference between the “in love experience” and the “emotional need” to feel loved. Most in our society have not yet learned that difference. The movies, the “soaps,” and the romantic magazines have intertwined these two loves, thus adding to our confusion, but they are, in fact, quite distinct. The “in love experience” that we discussed in chapter 3 is on the level of instinct. It is not premeditated; it simply happens in the normal context of male-female relationships. It can be fostered or quenched, but it does not arise by conscious choice. It is short-lived (usually two years or less) and seems to serve for humankind the same function as the mating call of the Canada geese. The “in love experience” temporarily meets one’s emotional need for love. It gives us the feeling that someone cares, that someone admires us and appreciates us. Our emotions soar with the thought that another person sees us as number one, that he or she is willing to devote time and energies exclusively to our relationship. For a brief period, however long it lasts, our emotional need for love is met. Our tank is full; we can conquer the world. Nothing is impossible. For many individuals, it is the first time they have ever lived with a full emotional tank, and it is euphoric. Meeting my wife’s need for love is a choice I make each day. If I know her primary love language and choose to speak it, her deepest emotional need will be met and she will feel secure in my love. In time, however, we come down from that natural high back to the real world. If our spouse has learned to speak our primary love language, our need for love will continue to be satisfied. If, on the other hand, he or she does not speak our love language, our tank will slowly drain, and we will no longer feel loved. Meeting that need in one’s spouse is definitely a choice. If I learn the emotional love language of my spouse and speak it frequently, she will continue to feel loved. When she comes down from the obsession of the “in love experience,” she will hardly even miss it because her emotional love tank will continue to be filled. However, if I have not learned her primary love language or have chosen not to speak it, when she descends from the emotional high, she will have the natural yearnings of unmet emotional need. After some years of living with an empty love tank, she will likely “fall in love” with someone else and the cycle will begin again. Meeting my wife’s need for love is a choice I make each day. If I know her primary love language and choose to speak it, her deepest emotional need will be met and she will feel secure in my love. If she does the same for me, my emotional needs are met and both of us live with a full tank. In a state of emotional contentment, both of us will give our creative energies to many wholesome projects outside the marriage while we continue to keep our marriage exciting and growing. With all of that in my mind, I looked back at the deadpan face of Brent and wondered if I could help him. I knew in my heart that he was probably already involved with another “in love experience.” I wondered if it was in the beginning stages or at its height. Few men, suffering from an empty emotional love tank, leave their marriage until they have prospects of meeting that need somewhere else. Brent was honest and revealed that he had been in love with someone else for several months. He had hoped that the feelings would go away and that he could work things out with his wife. But things at home had gotten worse, and his love for the other woman had increased. He could not imagine living without his new lover. I sympathized with Brent in his dilemma. He sincerely did not want to hurt his wife or his children, but at the same time, he felt he deserved a life of happiness. I told him the statistics on second marriages (60 percent ending in divorce). He was surprised to hear that but was certain that he would beat the odds. I told him about the research on the effects of divorce on children, but he was convinced that he would continue to be a good father to his children and that they would get over the trauma of the divorce. I talked to Brent about the issues in this book and explained the difference between the experience of falling in love and the deep emotional need to feel loved. I explained the five love languages and challenged him to give his marriage another chance. All the while, I knew that my intellectual and reasoned approach to marriage compared to the emotional high that he was experiencing was like pitting a BB gun against an automatic weapon. He expressed appreciation for my concern and asked that I do everything possible to help Becky. But he assured me that he saw no hope for the marriage. One month later, I received a call from Brent. He indicated that he would like to talk with me again. This time when he entered my office he was noticeably disturbed. He was not the calm, cool man I had seen before. His lover had begun to come down off the emotional high, and she was observing things in Brent that she did not like. She was withdrawing from the relationship, and he was crushed. Tears came to his eyes as he told me how much she meant to him and how unbearable it was to experience her rejection. I listened sympathetically for an hour before Brent ever asked for my advice. I told him how sympathetic I was to his pain and indicated that what he was experiencing was the natural emotional grief from a loss and that the grief would not go away overnight. I explained, however, that the experience was inevitable. I reminded him of the temporary nature of the “in love experience,” that sooner or later, we always come down from the high to the real world. Some fall out of love before they get married; others, after they get married. He agreed that it was better now than later. After some time, I suggested that perhaps the crisis was a good time for him and his wife to get some marriage counseling. I reminded him that true, long-lasting emotional love is a choice and that emotional love could be reborn in his marriage if he and his wife learned to love each other in the right love languages. He agreed to marriage counseling; and nine months later, Brent and Becky left my office with a reborn marriage. When I saw Brent three years later, he told me what a wonderful marriage he had and thanked me for helping him at a crucial time in his life. He told me that the grief over losing the other lover had been gone for more than two years. He smiled and said, “My tank has never been so full, and Becky is the happiest woman you are ever going to meet.” Fortunately Brent was the benefactor of what I call the disequilibrium of the “in love experience.” That is, almost never do two people fall in love on the same day, and almost never do they fall out of love on the same day. You don’t have to be a social scientist to discover that truth. Just listen to country and western songs. Brent’s lover happened to have fallen out of love at an opportune time. When an action doesn’t come naturally to you, it is a greater expression of love. In the nine months that I counseled Brent and Becky, we worked through numerous conflicts that they had never resolved before. But the key to the rebirth of their marriage was discovering each other’s primary love language and choosing to speak it frequently. Let me return to the question I raised in chapter 9. “What if the love language of your spouse is something that doesn’t come naturally for you?” I am often asked this question at my marriage seminars, and my answer is, “So?” My wife’s love language is “Acts of Service.” One of the things I do for her regularly as an act of love is to vacuum the floors. Do you think that vacuuming floors comes naturally for me? My mother used to make me vacuum. All through junior high and high school, I couldn’t go play ball on Saturday until I finished vacuuming the entire house. In those days, I said to myself, “When I get out of here, one thing I am not going to do: I am not going to vacuum houses. I’ll get myself a wife to do that.” But I vacuum our house now, and I vacuum it regularly. And there is only one reason I vacuum our house. Love. You couldn’t pay me enough to vacuum a house, but I do it for love. You see, when an action doesn’t come naturally to you, it is a greater expression of love. My wife knows that when I vacuum the house, it’s nothing but 100 percent pure, unadulterated love, and I get credit for the whole thing! Someone says, “But, Dr. Chapman, that’s different. I know that my spouse’s love language is physical touch, and I am not a toucher. I never saw my mother and father hug each other. They never hugged me, Dr. Chapman. I am just not a toucher. What am I going to do?” Do you have two hands? Can you put them together? Now, imagine that you have your spouse in the middle and pull him/her toward you. I’ll bet that if you hug your spouse three thousand times, it will begin to feel more comfortable. But ultimately, comfort is not the issue. We are talking about love, and love is something you do for someone else, not something you do for yourself. Most of us do many things each day that do not come “naturally” for us. For some of us, that is getting out of bed in the morning. We go against our feelings and get out of bed. Why? Because we believe there is something worthwhile to do that day. And normally, before the day is over, we feel good about having gotten up. Our actions preceded our emotions. The same is true with love. We discover the primary love language of our spouse, and we choose to speak it whether or not it is natural for us. We are not claiming to have warm, excited feelings. We are simply choosing to do it for his or her benefit. We want to meet our spouse’s emotional need, and we reach out to speak his love language. In so doing, his emotional love tank is filled and chances are he will reciprocate and speak our language. When he does, our emotions return, and our love tank begins to fill. Love is a choice. And either partner can start the process today. OceanofPDF.com OceanofPDF.com chapter eleven OceanofPDF.com LOVE MAKES THE DIFFERENCE Love is not our only emotional need. Psychologists have observed that among our basic needs are the need for security, self-worth, and significance. Love, however, interfaces with all of those. If I feel loved by my spouse, I can relax, knowing that my lover will do me no ill. I feel secure in his/her presence. I may face many uncertainties in my vocation. I may have enemies in other areas of my life, but with my spouse I feel secure. My sense of self-worth is fed by the fact that my spouse loves me. After all, if he/she loves me, I must be worth loving. My parents may have given me negative or mixed messages about my worth, but my spouse knows me as an adult and loves me. Her love builds my self-esteem. The need for significance is the emotional force behind much of our behavior. Life is driven by the desire for success. We want our lives to count for something. We have our own idea of what it means to be significant, and we work hard to reach our goals. Feeling loved by a spouse enhances our sense of significance. We reason, If someone loves me, I must have significance. I am significant because I stand at the apex of the created order. I have the ability to think in abstract terms, communicate my thoughts via words, and make decisions. By means of printed or recorded words, I can benefit from the thoughts of those who have preceded me. I can profit from others’ experience, though they lived in a different age and culture. I experience the death of family and friends and sense that there is existence beyond the material. I discover that, in all cultures, people believe in a spiritual world. My heart tells me it is true even when my mind, trained in scientific observation, raises critical questions. I am significant. Life has meaning. There is a higher purpose. I want to believe it, but I may not feel significant until someone expresses love to me. When my spouse lovingly invests time, energy, and effort in me, I believe that I am significant. Without love, I may spend a lifetime in search of significance, self-worth, and security. When I experience love, it impacts all of those needs positively. I am now freed to develop my potential. I am more secure in my self-worth and can now turn my efforts outward instead of being obsessed with my own needs. True love always liberates. In the context of marriage, if we do not feel loved, our differences are magnified. We come to view each other as a threat to our happiness. We fight for self-worth and significance, and marriage becomes a battlefield rather than a haven. Love is not the answer to everything, but it creates a climate of security in which we can seek answers to those things that bother us. In the security of love, a couple can discuss differences without condemnation. Conflicts can be resolved. Two people who are different can learn to live together in harmony. We discover how to bring out the best in each other. Those are the rewards of love. The decision to love your spouse holds tremendous potential. Learning his/her primary love language makes that potential a reality. Love really does “make the world go round.” At least it did for Jean and Norm. They had traveled for three hours to get to my office. It was obvious that Norm did not want to be there. Jean had twisted his arm by threats of leaving him. (I do not suggest this approach, but people do not always know my suggestions before they come to see me.) They had been married for thirty-five years and had never gone to counseling before. Jean began the conversation. “Dr. Chapman, I want you to know two things up front. First of all, we don’t have any money problems. I was reading in a magazine that money is the biggest problem in marriage. That’s not true for us. We both have worked through the years, the house is paid for, the cars are paid for. We don’t have any money problems. Second, I want you to know that we don’t argue. I hear my friends talking about the arguments they have all the time. We have never argued. I can’t remember the last time we ever had an argument. Both of us agree that arguing is fruitless, so we don’t argue.” As a counselor, I appreciated Jean’s clearing the path. I knew that she was going to get right to the point. It was obvious that she had thought through her opening statement. She wanted to make sure we didn’t get bogged down in nonproblems. She wanted to use the hour wisely. She continued. “The problem is that I just don’t feel any love coming from my husband. Life is a routine for us. We get up in the morning and go off to work. In the afternoon, he does his thing and I do my thing. We generally have dinner together, but we don’t talk. He watches TV while we eat. After dinner, he piddles in the basement and then sleeps in front of the TV until I tell him it’s time to go to bed. That is our schedule five days a week. On Saturday, he plays golf in the morning, works in the yard in the afternoon, and we go out to dinner with another couple on Saturday night. He talks to them, but when we get into the car to go home, the conversation is over. Once we are at home, he sleeps in front of the TV until we go to bed. On Sunday morning, we go to church. We always go to church on Sunday morning, Dr. Chapman,” she emphasized. “Then,” she said, “we go out to lunch with some friends. When we get home, he sleeps in front of the TV all Sunday afternoon. We usually go back to church on Sunday night, come home, eat popcorn, and go to bed. That’s our schedule every week. That’s all there is to it. We are like two roommates living in the same house. There is nothing going on between us. I don’t feel any love coming from him. There is no warmth, there’s no emotion. It’s empty, it’s dead. I don’t think I can go on much longer like this.” By that time, Jean was crying. I handed her a tissue and looked at Norm. His first comment was, “I don’t understand her.” After a brief pause, he continued. “I have done everything I know to show her that I love her, especially the last two or three years since she’s been complaining about it so much. Nothing seems to help. No matter what I do, she continues to complain that she doesn’t feel loved. I don’t know what else to do.” I could tell that Norm was frustrated and exasperated. I inquired, “What have you been doing to show your love for Jean?” “Well, for one thing,” he said, “I get home from work before she does, so I get dinner started every night. In fact, if you want to know the truth, I have dinner almost ready when she gets home four nights a week. The other night, we go out to eat. After dinner, I wash dishes three nights a week. The other night I have a meeting, but three nights I wash the dishes after dinner is over. I do all the vacuuming because her back is bad. I do all the yard work because she is allergic to pollen. I fold the clothes when they come out of the dryer.” He went on telling me other things that he did for Jean. When he finished, I wondered, What does this woman do? There was almost nothing left for her. Norm continued, “I do all those things to show her that I love her, yet she sits there and says to you what she has been saying to me for two or three years—that she doesn’t feel loved. I don’t know what else to do for her.” When I turned back to Jean she said, “Dr. Chapman, all of those things are fine, but I want him to sit on the couch and talk to me. We don’t ever talk. We haven’t talked in thirty years. He’s always washing dishes, vacuuming the floor, mowing the grass. He’s always doing something. I want him to sit on the couch with me and give me some time, look at me, talk to me about us, about our lives.” Jean was crying again. It was obvious to me that her primary love language was “Quality Time.” She was crying for attention. She wanted to be treated as a person, not an object. Norm’s busyness did not meet her emotional need. As I talked further with Norm, I discovered that he didn’t feel loved either, but he wasn’t talking about it. He reasoned, “If you have been married for thirty-five years and your bills are paid and you don’t argue, what more can you hope for?” That’s where he was. But when I said to him, “What would be an ideal wife to you? If you could have a perfect wife, what would she be like?” he looked me in the eye for the first time and asked, “Do you really want to know?” “Yes,” I said. He sat up on the couch and folded his arms across his chest. A big smile broke on his face, and he said, “I’ve dreamed about this. A perfect wife would be a wife who would come home in the afternoon and fix dinner for me. I would be working in the yard, and she would call me in to eat. After dinner, she would wash the dishes. I would probably help her some, but she would take the responsibility. She would sew the buttons on my shirt when they fall off.” Jean could contain herself no longer. She turned to him and said, “I’m not believing you. You told me that you liked to cook.” “I don’t mind cooking,” Norm responded, “but the man asked me what would be ideal.” I knew Norm’s primary love language without another word—“Acts of Service.” Why do you think Norm did all of those things for Jean? Because that was his love language. In his mind, that’s the way you show love: by doing things for people. The problem was that “doing things” was not Jean’s primary love language. It did not mean to her emotionally what it would have meant to him if she had been doing things for him. When the light came on in Norm’s mind, the first thing he said was, “Why didn’t somebody tell me this thirty years ago? I could have been sitting on the couch talking to her fifteen minutes every night instead of doing all this stuff.” He turned to Jean and said, “For the first time in my life, I finally understand what you mean when you say ‘We don’t talk.’ I could never understand that. I thought we did talk. I always ask, ‘Did you sleep well?’ I thought we were talking, but now I understand. You want to sit on the couch fifteen minutes every night and look at each other and talk. Now I understand what you mean, and now I know why it is so important to you. It is your emotional love language, and we’ll start tonight. I’ll give you fifteen minutes on the couch every night for the rest of my life. You can count on that.” Jean turned to Norm and said, “That would be heavenly, and I don’t mind fixing dinner for you. It will have to be later than usual because I get off work later than you, but I don’t mind fixing dinner. And I would love to sew your buttons on. You never left them off long enough for me to get them. I’ll wash dishes the rest of my life if it will make you feel loved.” Jean and Norm went home and started loving each other in the right love languages. In less than two months, they were on a second honeymoon. They called me from the Bahamas to tell me what a radical change had taken place in their marriage. Can emotional love be reborn in a marriage? You bet. The key is to learn the primary love language of your spouse and choose to speak it. OceanofPDF.com OceanofPDF.com chapter twelve OceanofPDF.com LOVING THE UNLOVELY It was a beautiful September Saturday. My wife and I were strolling through Reynolda Gardens, enjoying the flora, some of which had been imported from around the world. The gardens had originally been developed by R. J. Reynolds, the tobacco magnate, as a part of his country estate. They are now a part of the Wake Forest University campus. We had just passed the rose garden when I noticed Ann, a woman who had begun counseling two weeks earlier, approaching us. She was looking down at the cobblestone walkway and appeared to be in deep thought. When I greeted her, she was startled but looked up and smiled. I introduced her to Karolyn, and we exchanged pleasantries. Then, without any lead-in, she asked me one of the most profound questions I have ever heard: “Dr. Chapman, is it possible to love someone whom you hate?” I knew the question was born of deep hurt and deserved a thoughtful answer. I knew that I would be seeing her the following week for another counseling appointment, so I said, “Ann, that is one of the most thought-provoking questions I have ever heard. Why don’t we discuss that next week?” She agreed, and Karolyn and I continued our stroll. But Ann’s question did not go away. Later, as we drove home, Karolyn and I discussed it. We reflected on the early days of our own marriage and remembered that we had often experienced feelings of hate. Our condemning words to each other had stimulated hurt and, on the heels of hurt, anger. Anger held inside becomes hate. What made the difference for us? We both knew it was the choice to love. We had realized that if we continued our pattern of demanding and condemning, we would destroy our marriage. Fortunately over a period of about a year, we had learned how to discuss our differences without condemning each other, how to make decisions without destroying our unity, how to give constructive suggestions without being demanding, and eventually how to speak each other’s primary love language. (Many of those insights are recorded in an earlier book, Toward a Growing Marriage, Moody Publishers.) Our choice to love was made in the midst of negative feelings toward each other. When we started speaking each other’s primary love language, the negative feelings of anger and hate abated. Our situation, however, was different from Ann’s. Karolyn and I had both been open to learning and growing. I knew that Ann’s husband was not. She had told me the previous week that she had begged him to go for counseling. She had pleaded for him to read a book or listen to a tape on marriage, but he had refused all her efforts toward growth. According to her, his attitude was: “I don’t have any problems. You are the one with the problems.” In his mind he was right, she was wrong—it was as simple as that. Her feelings of love for him had been killed through the years by his constant criticism and condemnation. After ten years of marriage, her emotional energy was depleted and her self-esteem almost destroyed. Was there hope for Ann’s marriage? Could she love an unlovely husband? Would he ever respond in love to her? I knew that Ann was a deeply religious person and that she attended church regularly. I surmised that perhaps her only hope for marital survival was in her faith. The next day, with Ann in mind, I began to read Luke’s account of the life of Christ. I have always admired Luke’s writing because he was a physician who gave attention to details and in the first century wrote an orderly account of the teachings and lifestyle of Jesus of Nazareth. In what many have called Jesus’ greatest sermon, I read the following words, which I call love’s greatest challenge. I tell you who hear me: Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who mistreat you…. Do to others as you would have them do to you. If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? Even “sinners” love those who love them.1 It seemed to me that that profound challenge, written almost two thousand years ago, might be the direction that Ann was looking for, but could she do it? Could anyone do it? Is it possible to love a spouse who has become your enemy? Is it possible to love one who has cursed you, mistreated you, and expressed feelings of contempt and hate for you? And if she could, would there be any payback? Would her husband ever change and begin to express love and care for her? I was astounded by this further word from Jesus’ ancient sermon: “Give, and it will be given to you. A good measure, pressed down, shaken together and running over, will be poured into your lap. For with the measure you use, it will be measured to you.”2 Could that ancient principle of loving an unlovely person possibly work in a marriage as far gone as Ann’s? I decided to do an experiment. I would take as my hypothesis that if Ann could learn her husband’s primary love language and speak it for a period of time so that his emotional need for love was met, eventually he would reciprocate and begin to express love to her. I wondered, Would it work? I met with Ann the next week and listened again as she reviewed the horrors of her marriage. At the end of her synopsis, she repeated the question she had asked in Reynolda Gardens. This time she put it in the form of a statement: “Dr. Chapman, I just don’t know if I can ever love him again after all he has done to me.” “Have you talked about your situation with any of your friends?” I asked. “With two of my closest friends,” she said, “and a little bit with some other people.” “And what was their response?” “Get out,” she said. “They all tell me to get out, that he will never change, and that I am simply prolonging the agony. But, Dr. Chapman, I just can’t bring myself to do that. Maybe I should, but I just can’t believe that’s the right thing to do.” “It seems to me that you are torn between your religious and moral beliefs that tell you it is wrong to get out of the marriage, and your emotional pain, which tells you that getting out is the only way to survive,” I said. “That’s exactly right, Dr. Chapman. That’s exactly the way I feel. I don’t know what to do.” When the tank is low…we have no love feelings toward our spouse but simply experience emptiness and pain. “I am deeply sympathetic with your struggle,” I continued. “You are in a very difficult situation. I wish I could offer you an easy answer. Unfortunately, I can’t. Both of the alternatives you mentioned, getting out or staying in, will likely bring you a great deal of pain. Before you make that decision, I do have one idea. I am not sure it will work, but I’d like you to try it. I know from what you have told me that your religious faith is important to you and that you have a great deal of respect for the teachings of Jesus.” She nodded affirmingly. I continued, “I want to read something that Jesus once said that I think has some application to your marriage.” I read slowly and deliberately. “‘I tell you who hear me: Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who mistreat you…. Do to others as you would have them do to you. If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? Even “sinners” love those who love them.’ “Does that sound like your husband? Has he treated you as an enemy rather than as a friend?” I inquired. She nodded her head affirmingly. “Has he ever cursed you?” I asked. “Many times.” “Has he ever mistreated you?” “Often.” “And has he told you that he hates you?” “Yes.” “Ann, if you are willing, I would like to do an experiment. I would like to see what would happen if we apply this principle to your marriage. Let me explain what I mean.” I went on to explain to Ann the concept of the emotional tank and the fact that when the tank is low, as hers was, we have no love feelings toward our spouse but simply experience emptiness and pain. Since love is such a deep emotional need, the lack of it is perhaps our deepest emotional pain. I told her that if we could learn to speak each other’s primary love language, that emotional need could be met and positive feelings could be engendered again. “Does that make sense to you?” I inquired. “Dr. Chapman, you have just described my life. I have never seen it so clearly before. We were in love before we got married, but not long after our marriage we came down off the high and we never learned to speak each other’s love language. My tank has been empty for years, and I am sure his has also. Dr. Chapman, if I had understood this concept earlier, maybe none of this would have happened.” “We can’t go back, Ann,” I said. “All we can do is try to make the future different. I would like to propose a six-month experiment.” “I’ll try anything,” Ann said. I liked her positive spirit, but I wasn’t sure whether she understood how difficult the experiment would be. “Let’s begin by stating our objective,” I said. “If in six months you could have your fondest wish, what would it be?” Ann sat in silence for some time. Then thoughtfully she said, “I would like to see Glenn loving me again and expressing it by spending time with me. I would like to see us doing things together, going places together. I would like to feel that he is interested in my world. I would like to see us talking when we go out to eat. I’d like him to listen to me. I’d like to feel that he values my ideas. I would like to see us taking trips together and having fun again. I would like to know that he values our marriage more than anything.” Ann paused and then continued. “On my part, I would like to have warm, positive feelings toward him again. I would like to gain respect for him again. I would like to be proud of him. Right now, I don’t have those feelings.” I was writing as Ann was speaking. When she finished, I read aloud what she had said. “That sounds like a pretty lofty objective,” I said, “but is that really what you want, Ann?” “Right now, that sounds like an impossible objective, Dr. Chapman,” Ann replied, “but more than anything, that’s what I would like to see.” “Then let’s agree,” I said, “that this will be our objective. In six months, we want to see you and Glenn having this kind of love relationship. “Now, let me suggest a hypothesis. The purpose of our experiment will be to prove whether or not the hypothesis is true. Let’s hypothesize that if you could speak Glenn’s primary love language consistently for a six-month period, that somewhere along the line his emotional need for love would begin to be met; and as his emotional tank filled, he would begin to reciprocate love to you. That hypothesis is built upon the idea that the emotional need for love is our deepest emotional need; and when that need is being met, we tend to respond positively to the person who is meeting it.” I continued, “You understand that that hypothesis places all the initiative in your hands. Glenn is not trying to work on this marriage. You are. This hypothesis says that if you can channel your energies in the right direction, there is a good possibility that Glenn will eventually reciprocate.” I read the other portion of Jesus’ sermon recorded by Luke, the physician. “‘Give, and it will be given to you. A good measure, pressed down, shaken together and running over, will be poured into your lap. For with the measure you use, it will be measured to you.’ “As I understand that, Jesus is stating a principle, not a way to manipulate people. Generally speaking, if we are kind and loving toward people, they will tend to be kind and loving toward us. That does not mean that we can make a person kind by being kind to him. We are independent agents. Thus, we can spurn love and walk away from love or even spit into the face of love. There is no guarantee that Glenn will respond to your acts of love. We can only say that there is a good possibility he will do so.” (A counselor can never predict with absolute certainty individual human behavior. Based on research and personality studies, a counselor can only predict how a person is likely to respond in a given situation.) After we agreed on the hypothesis, I said to Ann, “Now let’s discuss your and Glenn’s primary love languages. I’m assuming from what you have told me already that quality time may be your primary love language. What do you think?” “I think so, Dr. Chapman. In the early days when we spent time together and Glenn listened to me, we spent long hours talking together, doing things together. I really felt loved. More than anything, I wish that part of our marriage could return. When we spend time together, I feel like he really cares, but when he’s always doing other things, never has time to talk, never has time to do anything with me, I feel like business and other pursuits are more important than our relationship.” “And what do you think Glenn’s primary love language is?” I inquired. “I think it is physical touch and especially the sexual part of the marriage. I know that when I felt more loved by him and we were more sexually active, he had a different attitude. I think that’s his primary love language, Dr. Chapman.” “Does he ever complain about the way you talk to him?” “Well, he says I nag him all the time. He also says that I don’t support him, that I’m always against his ideas.” “Then, let’s assume,” I said, “that ‘Physical Touch’ is his primary love language and ‘Words of Affirmation’ is his secondary love language. The reason I suggest the second is that if he complains about negative words, apparently positive words would be meaningful to him. “Now, let me suggest a plan to test our hypothesis. What if you go home and say to Glenn, ‘I’ve been thinking about us and I’ve decided that I would like to be a better wife to you. So if you have any suggestions as to how I could be a better wife, I want you to know that I am open to them. You can tell me now or you can think about it and let me know what you think, but I would really like to work on being a better wife.’ Whatever his response, negative or positive, simply accept it as information. That initial statement lets him know that something different is about to happen in your relationship. If you claim to have feelings that you do not have, that is hypocritical…. But if you express an act of love that is designed for the other person’s benefit or pleasure, it is simply a choice. “Then based upon your guess that his primary love language is ‘Physical Touch’ and my suggestion that his secondary love language may be ‘Words of Affirmation,’ focus your attention on those two areas for one month. “If Glenn comes back with a suggestion as to how you might be a better wife, accept that information and work it into your plan. Look for positive things in Glenn’s life and give him verbal affirmation about those things. In the meantime, stop all verbal complaints. If you want to complain about something, write it down in your personal notebook rather than saying anything about it to Glenn this month. “Begin taking more initiative in physical touch and sexual involvement. Surprise him by being aggressive, not simply responding to his advances. Set a goal to have sexual intercourse at least once a week the first two weeks and twice a week the following two weeks.” Ann had told me that she and Glenn had had sexual intercourse only once or twice in the past six months. I figured this plan would get things off dead center rather quickly. “Oh, Dr. Chapman, this is going to be difficult,” Ann said. “I have found it hard to be sexually responsive to him when he ignores me all the time. I have felt used rather than loved in our sexual encounters. He acts as though I am totally unimportant all the rest of the time and then wants to jump in bed and use my body. I have resented that, and I guess that’s why we have not had sex very often in the last few years.” “Your response has been natural and normal,” I assured Ann. “For most wives, the desire to be sexually intimate with their husbands grows out of a sense of being loved by their husbands. If they feel loved, then they desire sexual intimacy. If they do not feel loved, they likely feel used in the sexual context. That is why loving someone who is not loving you is extremely difficult. It goes against our natural tendencies. You will probably have to rely heavily upon your faith in God in order to do this. Perhaps it will help if you read again Jesus’ sermon on loving your enemies, loving those who hate you, loving those who use you. And then ask God to help you practice the teachings of Jesus.” I could tell that Ann was following what I was saying. Her head was nodding ever so slightly. Her eyes told me she had lots of questions. “But, Dr. Chapman, isn’t it being hypocritical to express love sexually when you have such negative feelings toward the person?” “Perhaps it would be helpful for us to distinguish between love as a feeling and love as an action,” I said. “If you claim to have feelings that you do not have, that is hypocritical and such false communication is not the way to build intimate relationships. But if you express an act of love that is designed for the other person’s benefit or pleasure, it is simply a choice. You are not claiming that the action grows out of a deep emotional bonding. You are simply choosing to do something for his benefit. I think that must be what Jesus meant. “Certainly we do not have warm feelings for people who hate us. That would be abnormal, but we can do loving acts for them. That is simply a choice. We hope that such loving acts will have a positive effect upon their attitudes and behavior and treatment, but at least we have chosen to do something positive for them.” My answer seemed to satisfy Ann, at least for the moment. I had the feeling that we would discuss that again. I also had the feeling that if the experiment was going to get off the ground, it would be because of Ann’s deep faith in God. “After the first month,” I said, “I want you to ask Glenn for feedback on how you are doing. Using your own words, ask him, ‘Glenn, you remember a few weeks ago when I told you I was going to try to be a better wife? I want to ask how you think I am doing.’ “Whatever Glenn says, accept it as information. He may be sarcastic, he may be flippant or hostile, or he may be positive. Whatever his response, do not argue but accept it and assure him that you are serious and that you really want to be a better wife, and if he has additional suggestions, you are open to them. “Follow this pattern of asking for feedback once a month for the entire six months. Whenever Glenn gives you the first positive feedback, whenever he says, ‘You know, I have to admit that when you first told me that you were going to try to be better, I pretty much laughed it off, but I’ll have to acknowledge that things are different around here,’ you will know that your efforts are getting through to him emotionally. He may give you positive feedback after the first month, or it may be after the second or third. One week after you receive the first positive feedback, I want you to make a request of Glenn—something that you would like him to do, something in keeping with your primary love language. For example, you may say to him one evening, ‘Glenn, do you know something I would like to do? Do you remember how we used to play Scrabble together? I’d like to play Scrabble with you on Thursday night. The kids are going to be staying at Mary’s. Do you think that would be possible?’ “Make the request something specific, not general. Don’t say, ‘You know, I wish we would spend more time together.’ That’s too vague. How will you know when he’s done it? But if you make your request specific, he will know exactly what you want and you will know that, when he does it, he is choosing to do something for your benefit. “Make a specific request of him each month. If he does it, fine; if he doesn’t do it, fine. But when he does it, you will know that he is responding to your needs. In the process, you are teaching him your primary love language because the requests you make are in keeping with your love language. If he chooses to begin loving you in your primary language, your positive emotions toward him will begin to resurface. Your emotional tank will begin to fill up and in time the marriage will, in fact, be reborn.” Perhaps you need a miracle in your own marriage. Why not try Ann’s experiment? “Dr. Chapman, I would do anything if that could happen,” Ann said. “Well,” I responded, “it will take a lot of hard work, but I believe it’s worth a try. I’m personally interested to see if this experiment works and if our hypothesis is true. I would like to meet with you regularly throughout this process—perhaps every two weeks—and I would like you to keep records on the positive words of affirmation that you give Glenn each week. Also, I would like you to bring me your list of complaints that you have written in your notebook without stating them to Glenn. Perhaps from the felt complaints, I can help you build specific requests for Glenn that will help meet some of those frustrations. Eventually, I want you to learn how to share your frustrations and irritations in a constructive way, and I want you and Glenn to learn how to work through those irritations and conflicts. But during this six-month experiment, I want you to write them down without telling Glenn.” Ann left, and I believed that she had the answer to her question: “Is it possible to love someone whom you hate?” In the next six months, Ann saw a tremendous change in Glenn’s attitude and treatment of her. The first month, he was flippant and treated the whole thing lightly. But after the second month, he gave her positive feedback about her efforts. In the last four months, he responded positively to almost all of her requests, and her feelings for him began to change drastically. Glenn never came for counseling, but he did listen to some of my tapes and discuss them with Ann. He encouraged Ann to continue her counseling, which she did for another three months after our experiment. To this day, Glenn swears to his friends that I am a miracle worker. I know in fact that love is a miracle worker. Perhaps you need a miracle in your own marriage. Why not try Ann’s experiment? Tell your spouse that you have been thinking about your marriage and have decided that you would like to do a better job of meeting his/her needs. Ask for suggestions on how you could improve. His suggestions will be a clue to his primary love language. If he makes no suggestions, guess his love language based on the things he has complained about over the years. Then, for six months, focus your attention on that love language. At the end of each month, ask your spouse for feedback on how you are doing and for further suggestions. Whenever your spouse indicates that he is seeing improvement, wait one week and then make a specific request. The request should be something you really want him to do for you. If he chooses to do it, you will know that he is responding to your needs. If he does not honor your request, continue to love him. Maybe next month he will respond positively. If your spouse starts speaking your love language by responding to your requests, your positive emotions toward him will return, and in time your marriage will be reborn. I cannot guarantee the results, but scores of people whom I have counseled have experienced the miracle of love. NOTES 1. Luke 6:27–28, 31–32. 2. Luke 6:38. OceanofPDF.com OceanofPDF.com chapter thirteen OceanofPDF.com CHILDREN AND LOVE LANGUAGES Does the concept of love languages apply to children? I am often asked that question by those attending my marriage seminars. My unqualified answer is yes. When children are little, you don’t know their primary love language. Therefore, pour on all five and you are bound to hit it; but if you observe their behavior, you can learn their primary love language rather early. Bobby is six years old. When his father comes home from work, Bobby jumps into his lap, reaches up, and messes up his father’s hair. What is Bobby saying to his father? “I want to be touched.” He is touching his father because he wants to be touched. Bobby’s primary love language is likely “Physical Touch.” Patrick lives next door to Bobby. He is five and a half, and he and Bobby are playmates. Patrick’s father, however, faces a different scenario when he comes home from work. Patrick says excitedly, “Come here, Daddy. I want to show you something. Come here.” His father says, “Just a minute, Patrick, I want to look at the paper.” Patrick leaves for a moment but is back in fifteen seconds, saying, “Daddy, come to my room. I want to show you now, Daddy. I want to show you now.” His father replies, “Just a minute, son. Let me finish reading.” Patrick’s mother calls him, and he dashes off. His mother tells him that his father is tired and please let him read the paper for a few minutes. Patrick says, “But, Mommy, I want to show him what I made.” “I know,” says his mother, “but let Dad read for a few minutes.” Sixty seconds later, Patrick is back to his father and instead of saying anything, he jumps into his father’s paper, laughing. His father says, “What are you doing, Patrick?” Patrick says, “I want you to come to my room, Daddy. I want to show you what I made.” What is Patrick requesting? “Quality Time.” He wants his father’s undivided attention, and he won’t stop until he gets it, even if he must create a scene. If your child is often making presents for you, wrapping them up and giving them to you with a special glee in his or her eye, your child’s primary love language is probably “Receiving Gifts.” He gives to you because he desires to receive. If you observe your son or daughter always trying to help a younger brother or sister, it probably means that his or her primary love language is “Acts of Service.” If he or she is often telling you how good you look and what a good mother or father you are and what a good job you did, it is an indicator that his or her primary love language is “Words of Affirmation.” All of that is on the subconscious level for the child. That is, the child is not consciously thinking, “If I give a gift, my parents will give me a gift; if I touch, I will be touched,” but her behavior is motivated by her own emotional desires. Perhaps she has learned by experience that when she does or says certain things, she typically receives certain responses from her parents. Thus, she does or says that which results in getting her own emotional needs met. If all goes well and their emotional needs are met, children develop into responsible adults; but if the emotional need is not met, they may violate acceptable standards, expressing anger toward parents who did not meet their needs, and seeking love in inappropriate places. Dr. Ross Campbell, the psychiatrist who first told me about the emotional love tank, says that in his many years of treating adolescents who have been involved in sexual misconduct, he has never treated such an adolescent whose emotional need for love has been met by the parents. His opinion was that almost all sexual misconduct in adolescents is rooted in an empty emotional love tank. Why is it that as the child gets older, our “Words of Affirmation” turn to words of condemnation? Have you seen that in your community? A teenager runs away from home. The parents wring their hands, saying, “How could he do this to us after all we have done for him?” but the teenager is sixty miles down the road in some counselor’s office, saying, “My parents don’t love me. They have never loved me. They love my brother, but they don’t love me.” Do the parents, in fact, love that teenager? In the majority of cases, they do. Then what’s the problem? Very likely, the parents never learned how to communicate love in a language the child could understand. Perhaps they bought ball gloves and bicycles to show their love, but the child was crying, “Will someone play ball with me? Will someone go riding with me?” The difference between buying a ball glove and playing ball with a child may be the difference between an empty love tank and a full one. Parents can sincerely love their children (most do), but sincerity is not enough. We must learn to speak the primary love language of our children if we are to meet their emotional need for love. Let’s look at the five love languages in the context of loving children. WORDS OF AFFIRMATION Parents typically give many affirming words when the child is young. Even before the child understands verbal communication, parents are saying, “What a pretty nose, what beautiful eyes, what curly hair,” and so on. When the child begins to crawl, we applaud every movement and give “Words of Affirmation.” When he begins to walk and stands with one hand against the couch, we stand two feet away and say, “Come on, come on, come on. That’s right! Walk. That’s right, walk.” The child takes half a step and falls and what do we say? We don’t say, “You dumb kid, can’t you walk?” Rather, we say, “Yea, good job!” So he gets up and tries again. Why is it that as the child gets older, our “Words of Affirmation” turn to words of condemnation? When the child is seven we walk into the room and tell him to put the toys in the toy box. Twelve toys are on the floor. We come back in five minutes and seven toys are in the box, and what do we say? “I told you to get these toys up. If you don’t get these toys up, I am going to—” What about the seven toys in the box? Why don’t we say, “Yea, Johnny, you put seven toys in the box. That’s great.” The other five would probably jump into the box! As the child gets older, we tend to condemn him for his failures rather than commend him for his successes. To a child whose primary love language is “Words of Affirmation,” our negative, critical, demeaning words strike terror to her psyche. Hundreds of thirty-five-year-old adults still hear words of condemnation spoken twenty years ago ringing in their ears: “You’re too fat; nobody will ever date you.” “You’re not a student. You may as well drop out of school.” “I can’t believe you are so dumb.” “You are irresponsible and will never amount to anything.” Adults struggle with self-esteem and feel unloved all their lives when their primary love language is violated in such a detrimental manner. QUALITY TIME Quality time means giving a child undivided attention. For the small child, it means sitting on the floor and rolling a ball back and forth with him. We are talking about playing with cars or dolls. We are talking about playing in the sandbox and building castles, getting into his world, doing things with him. You may be into computers as an adult, but your child lives in a child’s world. You must get down on the child’s level if you eventually want to lead him to the adult world. As the child gets older and develops new interests, you must enter into those interests if you want to meet his needs. If he is into basketball, get interested in basketball, spend time playing basketball with him, take him to basketball games. If he is into piano, perhaps you could take a piano lesson or at least listen with undivided attention for part of his practice period. Giving a child your undivided attention says that you care, that he is important to you, that you enjoy being with him. Many adults, looking back on childhood, do not remember much of what their parents said, but they do remember what their parents did. One adult said, “I remember that my father never missed my high school games. I knew he was interested in what I was doing.” For that adult, “Quality Time” was an extremely important communicator of love. If “Quality Time” is the primary love language of your child and you speak that language, chances are he will allow you to spend quality time with him even through the adolescent years. If you do not give him quality time in the younger years, he will likely seek the attention of peers during the adolescent years and turn away from parents who may at that time desperately desire more time with their children. RECEIVING GIFTS Many parents and grandparents speak the language of gifts excessively. In fact, when one visits toy stores, one wonders if parents believe that is the only language of love. If parents have the money, they tend to buy many gifts for their children. Some parents believe that that is the best way to show love. Some parents try to do for their children what their parents were unable to do for them. They buy things that they wish they had had as a child. But unless that is the primary love language of the child, gifts may mean little emotionally to the child. The parent has good intentions, but he/she is not meeting the emotional needs of the child by giving gifts. If the gifts you give are quickly laid aside, if the child seldom says “thank you,” if the child does not take care of the gifts that you have given, if she does not prize those gifts, chances are “Receiving Gifts” is not her primary love language. If, on the other hand, your child responds to you with much thanksgiving, if she shows others the gift and tells others how wonderful you are for buying the gift, if she takes care of the gift, if she puts it in a place of prominence in her room and keeps it polished, if she plays with it often over an extended period of time, then perhaps “Receiving Gifts” is her primary love language. What if you have a child for whom “Receiving Gifts” is his or her primary love language but you cannot afford many gifts? Remember, it’s not the quality or cost of the gift; it is the “thought that counts.” Many gifts can be handmade, and sometimes the child appreciates that gift more than an expensive, manufactured gift. In fact, younger children will often play with a box more than the toy that came in it. You can also find discarded toys and refinish them. The process of refinishing can become a project for both parent and child. You need not have lots of money in order to provide gifts for your children. ACTS OF SERVICE When children are small, parents are continually doing “Acts of Service” for them. If they did not, the child would die. Bathing, feeding, and dressing all require a great deal of work in the first few years of a child’s life. Then comes cooking, washing, and ironing. Then comes packing lunches, running a taxi service, and helping with homework. Such things are taken for granted by many children, but for other children those things communicate love. Observe your children. Watch how they express love to others. That is a clue to their love language. If your child is often expressing appreciation for ordinary acts of service, that is a clue that they are emotionally important to him or her. Your acts of service are communicating love in a meaningful way. When you help him with a science project, it means more than a good grade. It means “My parent loves me.” When you fix a bicycle, you do more than get him back on wheels. You send him away with a full tank. If your child consistently offers to help you with your work projects, it probably means that in his mind that is a way of expressing love, and “Acts of Service” likely is his primary love language. PHYSICAL TOUCH We have long known that “Physical Touch” is an emotional communicator to children. Research has shown that babies who are handled often develop better emotionally than babies who are not. Naturally many parents and other adults pick up an infant, hold it, cuddle it, kiss it, squeeze it, and speak silly words to it. Long before the child understands the meaning of the word love, she feels loved. Hugging, kissing, patting, holding hands are all ways of communicating love to a child. The hugging and kissing of a teenager will differ from the hugging and kissing of an infant. Your teenager may not appreciate such behavior in the presence of peers, but that doesn’t mean that he does not want to be touched, especially if it is his primary love language. If your teenager is regularly coming up behind you and grabbing your arms, lightly pushing you, grabbing you by the ankle when you walk through the room, tripping you, those are all indications that “Physical Touch” is important to him. Observe your children. Watch how they express love to others. That is a clue to their love language. Take note of the things they request of you. Many times, their request will be in keeping with their own love language. Notice the things for which they are most appreciative. Those are likely indicators of their primary love language. Our daughter’s love language is “Quality Time”; thus, as she grew up, she and I often took walks together. During her high school years while she attended Salem Academy, one of the oldest girls’ academies in the country, we took walks amid the quaint surroundings of Old Salem. The Moravians have restored the village, which is more than two hundred years old. Walking the cobblestone streets takes one back to a simpler time. Strolling through the ancient cemetery gives one a sense of reality about life and death. In those years, we walked three afternoons a week and had long discussions in that austere setting. She is a medical doctor now, but when she comes home, she almost always says, “Want to take a walk, Dad?” I have never refused her invitation. My son would never walk with me. He said, “Walking’s dumb! You’re not going anywhere. If you’re going somewhere, drive.” “Quality Time” was not his primary love language. As parents, we often try to pour all of our children into the same mold. We go to parenting conferences or read books on parenting, get some wonderful ideas, and want to go home and practice with each child. The problem is that each child is different, and what communicates love to one child may not communicate love to another. Forcing a child to take a walk with you so that you can spend quality time together will not communicate love. We must learn to speak our children’s language if we want them to feel loved. I believe that most parents sincerely love their children. I also believe that thousands of parents have failed to communicate love in the proper language and thousands of children in this country are living with an empty emotional tank. I believe that most misbehavior in children and teenagers can be traced to empty love tanks. It is never too late to express love. If you have older children and realize that you have been speaking the wrong love language, why not tell them? “You know, I have been reading a book on how to express love, and I realize that I have not been expressing my love to you in the best way through the years. I have tried to show you my love by _______, but I’m now realizing that that probably has not communicated love to you, that your love language is probably something different. I am beginning to think that your love language is probably _______. You know, I really do love you, and I hope that in the future I can express it to you in better ways.” You might even want to explain the five love languages to them and discuss your love language as well as theirs. Perhaps you do not feel loved by your older children. If they are old enough to understand the concept of love languages, your discussion may open their eyes. You may be surprised at their willingness to start speaking your love language and, if they do, you might be surprised at the way your feelings and attitudes toward them begin to change. When family members start speaking each other’s primary love language, the emotional climate of a family is greatly enhanced. OceanofPDF.com OceanofPDF.com chapter fourteen OceanofPDF.com A PERSONAL WORD In chapter 2, I warned the reader that “understanding the five love languages and learning to speak the primary love language of your spouse may radically affect his or her behavior.” Now I ask, “What do you think?” Having read these pages, walked in and out of the lives of several couples, visited small villages and large cities, sat with me in the counseling office, and talked with people in restaurants, what do you think? Could these concepts radically alter the emotional climate of your marriage? What would happen if you discovered the primary love language of your spouse and chose to speak it consistently? Neither you nor I can answer that question until you have tried it. I know that many couples who have heard this concept at my marriage seminars say that choosing to love and expressing it in the primary love language of their spouse has made a drastic difference in their marriage. When the emotional need for love is met, it creates a climate where the couple can deal with the rest of life in a much more productive manner. We each come to marriage with a different personality and history. We bring emotional baggage into our marriage relationship. We come with different expectations, different ways of approaching things, and different opinions about what matters in life. In a healthy marriage, that variety of perspectives must be processed. We need not agree on everything, but we must find a way to handle our differences so that they do not become divisive. With empty love tanks, couples tend to argue and withdraw, and some may tend to be violent verbally or physically in their arguments. But when the love tank is full, we create a climate of friendliness, a climate that seeks to understand, that is willing to allow differences and to negotiate problems. I am convinced that no single area of marriage affects the rest of marriage as much as meeting the emotional need for love. The ability to love, especially when your spouse is not loving you, may seem impossible for some. Such love may require us to draw upon our spiritual resources. A number of years ago, as I faced my own marital struggles, I rediscovered my need for God. As an anthropologist, I had been trained to examine data. I decided to personally excavate the roots of the Christian faith. Examining the historical accounts of Christ’s birth, life, death, and resurrection, I came to view His death as an expression of love and His resurrection as profound evidence of His power. I became a true “believer.” I committed my life to Him and have found that He provides the inner spiritual energy to love, even when love is not reciprocated. I would encourage you to make your own investigation of the one whom, as He died, prayed for those who killed Him: “Father, forgive them for they know not what they do.” That is love’s ultimate expression. The high divorce rate in our country bears witness that thousands of married couples have been living with an empty emotional love tank. The growing number of adolescents who run away from home and clash with the law indicates that many parents who may have sincerely tried to express love to their children have been speaking the wrong love language. I believe that the concepts in this book could make an impact upon the marriages and families of our country. I have not written this book as an academic treatise to be stored in the libraries of colleges and universities, although I hope that professors of sociology and psychology will find it helpful in courses on marriage and family life. I have written not to those who are studying marriage but to those who are married, to those who have experienced the “in love” euphoria, who entered marriage with lofty dreams of making each other supremely happy but in the reality of day-to-day life are in danger of losing that dream entirely. It is my hope that thousands of those couples will not only rediscover their dream but will see the path to making their dreams come true. I dream of a day when the potential of the married couples in this country can be unleashed for the good of humankind, when husbands and wives can live life with full emotional love tanks and reach out to accomplish their potential as individuals and as couples. I dream of a day when children can grow up in homes filled with love and security, where children’s developing energies can be channeled to learning and serving rather than seeking the love they did not receive at home. It is my desire that this brief volume will kindle the flame of love in your marriage and in the marriages of thousands of other couples like you. If it were possible, I would hand this book personally to every married couple in this country and say, “I wrote this for you. I hope it changes your life. And if it does, be sure to give it to someone else.” Since I cannot do that, I would be pleased if you would give a copy of this book to your family, to your brothers and sisters, to your married children, to your employees, to those in your civic club or church or synagogue. Who knows, together we may see our dream come true. OceanofPDF.com For a free on-line study guide please visit: http://www.fivelovelanguages.com The study guide was designed to take the concepts from The Five Love Languages book and teach you how to apply them to your life in a practical way. There is one page of study notes per chapter. For couple or group studies and discussion groups. OceanofPDF.com The Five Love Languages PROFILE FOR HUSBANDS You may think you already know your primary love language. Then again, you may have no clue. The Five Love Languages Profile will help you know for certain which love language is yours—Words of Affirmation, Quality Time, Receiving Gifts, Acts of Service, or Physical Touch. The profile consists of 30 pairs of statements. You can only pick one statement in each pair as the one that best represents your desire. Read each pair of statements, and then, in the right-hand column, circle the letter that matches up with the statement you choose. It may be tough at times to decide between two statements, but you should only choose one per pair to ensure the most accurate profile results. Allow at least 15 to 30 minutes to complete the profile. Take it when you are relaxed, and try not to rush through it. Once you’ve made your selections, go back and count the number of times you circled each individual letter. You can list the results in the appropriate spaces at the end of the profile. INTERPRETING AND USING YOUR PROFILE SCORE Your primary love language is the one that received the highest score. You are “bilingual” and have two primary love languages if point totals are equal for any two love languages. If your second highest scoring love language is close in score but not equal to your primary love language, then this simply means that both expressions of love are important to you. The highest possible score for any one love language is 12. You may have scored certain ones of the love languages more highly than others, but do not dismiss those other languages as insignificant. Your wife may express love in those ways, and it will be helpful to you to understand this about her. In the same way, it will benefit your wife to know your love language and express her affection for you in ways that you interpret as love. Every time you or your wife speak each other’s language, you score emotional points with one another. Of course, this isn’t a game with a scorecard! The payoff of speaking each other’s love language is a greater sense of connection. This translates into better communication, increased understanding, and, ultimately, improved romance. If your wife has not already done so, encourage her to take The Five Love Languages Profile for Wives, which is available on page 199. Discuss your respective love languages, and use this insight to improve your marriage! OceanofPDF.com The Five Love Languages PROFILE FOR W IVES Words of Affirmation, Quality Time, Receiving Gifts, Acts of Service, or Physical Touch? Which of these is your primary love language? The following profile will help you know for sure. Then you and your husband can discuss your respective love languages and use this information to improve your marriage! The profile consists of 30 pairs of statements. You can only pick one statement in each pair as the one that best represents your desire. Read each pair of statements, and then, in the right-hand column, circle the letter that matches up with the statement you choose. It may be tough at times to decide between two statements, but you should only choose one per pair to ensure the most accurate profile results. Once you’ve finished making your selections, go back and count the number of times you circled each individual letter. List the results in the appropriate spaces at the end of the profile. Your primary love language is the one that receives the most points. INTERPRETING AND USING YOUR PROFILE SCORE Your primary love language is the one that received the highest score. You are “bilingual” and have two primary love languages if point totals are equal for any two love languages. If your second highest scoring love language is close in score but not equal to your primary love language, then this simply means that both expressions of love are important to you. The highest possible score for any one love language is 12. You may have scored certain ones of the love languages more highly than others, but do not dismiss those other languages as insignificant. Your husband may express love in those ways, and it will be helpful to you to understand this about him. In the same way, it will benefit your husband to know your love language and express his affection for you in ways that you interpret as love. Every time you or your husband speak each other’s language, you score emotional points with one another. Of course, this isn’t a game with a scorecard! The payoff of speaking each other’s love language is a greater sense of connection. This translates into better communication, increased understanding, and, ultimately, improved romance. PENGUIN PRESS An imprint of Penguin Random House LLC 375 Hudson Street New York, New York 10014 penguin.com Copyright © 2015 by Modern Romantics Corporation Penguin supports copyright. Copyright fuels creativity, encourages diverse voices, promotes free speech, and creates a vibrant culture. Thank you for buying an authorized edition of this book and for complying with copyright laws by not reproducing, scanning, or distributing any part of it in any form without permission. You are supporting writers and allowing Penguin to continue to publish books for every reader. Image credits. ISBN 978-0-698-17996-7 Designed by Walter Green Version_1 CONTENTS TitlePage Copyright INTRODUCTION CHAPTER 1 SEARCHING FOR YOUR SOUL MATE CHAPTER 2 THE INITIAL ASK CHAPTER 3 ONLINE DATING CHAPTER 4 CHOICE AND OPTIONS CHAPTER 5 INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATIONS OF LOVE CHAPTER 6 OLD ISSUES, NEW FORMS: SEXTING, CHEATING, SNOOPING, AND BREAKING UP CHAPTER 7 SETTLING DOWN CONCLUSION ACKNOWLEDGMENTS NOTES BOOKSCONSULTED INDEX IMAGECREDITS INTRODUCTIONOH,shit! Thanksfor buying mybook. Thatmoney is MINE. ButI workedreally hard on this,and I think you’ll enjoy it. First off, alittleabout this project. Whenyouhave successas a stand-up comedian,you quickly get offers to do a humor book. In the past, Ialways turned these opportunities down, because I thought stand-up was thebest medium for me. In mymind, abook wouldn’tbeas fun as justusingmy ideasforstandup. Sowhy did I decide to write a book about modern romance? A fewyears agothere was awoman inmy life— let’scall her Tanya—and we had hooked upone nightin L.A. We’d both attended a birthday party, andwhen things were winding down, she offered to dropme off at home. We had been chatting and flirting alittlethe whole night, so I askedher tocome in for a drink. At thetime, I was subletting a pretty nice house up in the Hollywood Hills. It was kind oflike that house De Niro had in Heat,buta little more my vibethanthe vibeof a really skilled robber who takes down armored cars. I made us both anice cocktail andwe took turns throwingon recordswhilewe chatted andlaughed. Eventually we started making out, and it was pretty awesome. I remember drunkenly saying something really dumbwhenshewas leaving, like, “Tanya, you’re averycharming lady . ..” Shesaid, “Aziz,you’rea pretty charming guytoo.” The encounter seemed promising,as everyone in the roomhad agreed:Wewere both charming people. I wanted tosee Tanya againand was faced with a simple conundrum that plagues us all:How and when do Icommunicate next? Do Icall? Do Itext? DoI send a Facebook message? Do Isend upa smoke signal? How does onedo that? WillI set myrented houseon fire? How embarrassed willI be when I haveto tellthe home’sowner,actorJames Earl Jones, that I burned his housedown trying to senda smoke signal? Oh no,Ijust revealed whosesick house I’d rented: King JaffeJoffer himself,the voiceof DarthVader, film legend James EarlJones. EventuallyI decided to texther, because she seemed to be a heavy texter. I waited afew days, so as notto seem overeager. I foundout that the band BeachHouse, which we listened tothe night we madeout, was playing that week in L.A., soit seemed likethe perfect move. Herewas my text: A nice, firmaskwitha little inside jokethrownin. (Tanyawassinging the Drake song “TheMotto” at the party and, impressively, knew almost all thelyrics.) I was prettyconfident. I wasn’t head-over-heelsin lovewithTanya,butshe seemedreallycooland it felt likewehad a good connection. As I waited for her response, I started picturing our hypotheticalrelationship. Perhapsnext weekendwe wouldgo seea movieatthe cooloutdoor screeningseries theydo at theHollywood Forever Cemetery? MaybeI could cook Tanya dinner later this week and try out that brick chicken recipe I’d been eagerto attempt?Would Tanya andI go vacation in Ojailater inthe fall? Who knew whatourfuture would be? This was goingto be great! A fewminutes went by and the status of mytext messagechanged to “read.” My heart stopped. This was the moment of truth. I braced myselfand watched asthose little iPhone dotspopped up. The onesthat tantalizingly tell you someone is typinga response, the smartphoneequivalentof the slowtripup tothe topof a rollercoaster. Butthen, in a fewseconds—they vanished. And therewasno response fromTanya. Hmmm . .. What happened? A fewmore minutes go by and . .. Nothing. No problem, she’s probably just crafting her perfectly witty response. She started adraft,didn’tfeel good aboutit, and wanted to get back to itlater. I get it. Shealso probably didn’t want to seemovereagerand be writing backsofast,right? Fifteenminutes goby .. . Nothing. My confidence starts goingdownand shifting into doubt. An hourgoes by . . . Nothing. Two hours go by .. . Nothing. Three hoursgo by . . . Nothing. A mild panic begins. I startstaring at myoriginal text. Once soconfident, nowI second-guess it all. I’m so stupid! I should have typed “Hey” with two y’s, not just one! I asked too many questions. What the fuck was I thinking? Oh, there I go with another question. Aziz, WHAT’S UP WITH YOU AND THE QUESTIONS? I’m struggling to figure it outbuttrying tokeep calm. Okay, maybe she’s busy with work. No big deal. I’m sure she’ll get back to me as soon as she can. We had a connection, right? A fucking daygoes by. A FULL DAY! Nowmy thoughtsget crazier: What has happened?! I know she held my words in her hand!! Did Tanya’s phone fall into a river/trash compactor/volcano? Did Tanya fall into a river/trash compactor/volcano?? Oh no, Tanya has died, and I’m selfishly worried about our date. I’m a bad person. I shared mydilemma with afriend. “Aww, come on, man, it’sfine. She’ll get back to you. She’sprobably just busy,” hesaid optimistically. Then I look on social media. I seeher loggedonto Facebook Chat. DoI send a message? No! Don’t do that, Aziz. Be cool. Be cool . . . Later I check Instagram, and this clown Tanya is postinga photo ofsome deer. Too busy to writeme back, butshehastimeto posta photoof somedeer she saw on a hike? I’m distraught, but then I havea moment of clarity that every idiot has inthis situation. MAYBE SHE DIDN’T GET THE TEXT! Yes,that’swhat’s happened, right? There was a glitch inher phoneof some sort. Of course. This iswhenI contemplate a second text, butI’m hesitant dueto the factthat thisscenariohas never happenedwithmy friends: “Hey, Alan. Itextedyou to go get dinner and you didn’t write backfora full day. What happened?” “Damn!Ididn’tsee the text. Itdidn’tgo through. Glitch inmy phone. Sorry about that. Let’sgrabdinner tomorrow.” Back to the Tanya situation. At this pointit’s been morethantwenty-four hours. It’s Wednesday. The concert is tonight. Tonot even writeback andsayno, why would she do that?At least say nosoIcan take someone else, right?Why, Tanya, why? I startgoing nutsthinking about it. How can thisperson be rude on so many levels?I’m notjust somebozo. She’s known me for years. I kept debatingwhether I should sendanything,butI feltit would just be too desperate andaccepted that she wasn’t interested. Itold myself that I wouldn’t want to go outwithsomeone who treatspeoplethatway anyway, which was somewhattrue, but I was still beyondfrustrated and insulted. Then I realized something interesting. ThemadnessI was descending into wouldn’t haveeven existed twenty or even ten years ago. There I was,maniacallychecking my phone every few minutes, goingthrough this tornadoof panicand hurtand anger all because this person hadn’t writtenme a short,stupid messageon adumb little phone. I was really upset,but had Tanyareally done anything thatrude or malicious? No, she justdidn’t send a messagein orderto avoid an awkward situation. I’d surely done thesame thing tosomeone else andnot realized thesimilar grief Ihad possiblycaused them. I didn’t end up going to the concertthat night. Instead I went to a comedyclub and started talkingabout the awful frustration, self-doubt, and rage thatthis whole “silence” nonsensehad provokedin the depths of my being. I gotlaughs butalso something bigger,like the audience andI were connecting ona deeper level. I could tellthat every guy and girlin the audiencehad had theirown Tanyain their phone at onepoint oranother, each with their own individualproblems and dilemmas. Weeachsit alone, staring at this blackscreen with awhole range of emotions. But in a strange way, we arealldoing it together,and we shouldtake solace inthe factthat noone has aclue what’s goingon. I got fascinated bythe questionsof how andwhy so many people have become so perplexed bythe challenge of doingsomething thatpeople havealways done quite efficiently: finding romance. I started asking people I knew if there was a book that wouldhelp meunderstand the many challenges of looking for love in thedigital age. I foundsome interestingpieces hereand there,butnot the kind ofcomprehensive, in-depth sociological investigation I was looking for. That book simplydidn’t exist, so I decidedto tryto write it myself. WhenI started the project, I thoughtthe big changesin romance were obvious—technological developmentslike smartphones, onlinedating, and social media sites. AsI dug deeper,however, I realized thatthe transformation ofour romantic livescannot be explained by technology alone; there’s much moreto the story. Inaveryshort periodof time, the whole cultureof finding love anda matehasradically changed. A centuryago people would find a decentperson who lived in theirneighborhood. Theirfamilies wouldmeet and, after they decided neitherpartyseemed like a murderer, thecouple would get married and have a kid, all bythe time theywere twenty-two. Today people spendyears of their liveson a questto find theperfect person, asoul mate. Thetools we use onthis searchare different, but whathasreally changed is our desires and— even morestrikingly—the underlying goalsof thesearch itself. ThemoreI thoughtabout thesechanges, the more I had to write this book. But I also knew thatI,bozo comedian Aziz Ansari, probably couldn’ttackle this topic on my own, and I decided toreach out to some very smart people toguide me. I teamed upwiththe sociologist Eric Klinenberg, and wedesigned amassive research project, onethat wouldrequire morethan a yearof investigation in cities across theworld and involve someof theleading experts on love andromance. Before we getinto things, I want to tellyoumore about our project, so you know what we did—and didn’t—do. The primary source ofdata for this bookis the research that Eric andI didduring2013 and2014. We conducted focus groups and interviewswithhundreds ofpeoplein NewYork City, LosAngeles, Wichita, Monroe(NY), Buenos Aires, Tokyo,Paris, and Doha. Theseweren’tordinary interviews. First,we assembled diverse groups of people andwound up having incrediblypersonal conversations aboutthe intimatedetailsof their romantic lives. Second,and even moreintriguing,many ofthe people who participated inourresearch volunteeredto sharetheir phones with us, so we could track their interactions through text messages, emails, online dating sites, and swipeapps likeTinder. This informationwasrevelatory, because wecouldobserve how actualromantic encounters played out in people’slives andnot just hearstoriesaboutwhat people remembered. Sincewe asked peopleto share so much personalinformation, we promised them anonymity. Thatmeans all the names ofpeoplewhose stories we tellhere are pseudonyms, asisstandard practice in qualitativesocial science research. Toexpand our reach beyondjust those cities, we created aModern Romantics subreddit forum on the website Reddit to ask questionsand essentially conducta massive online focus groupreceiving thousandsof responses from aroundthe world. (I want to givehugethanksto everyone who participated inthese sessions, asthe book would nothave beenpossible without them.) So in the book, when we mention “the subreddit,” this is what we are referring to. We also spent along time interviewing some incrediblysmartpeople, including eminent sociologists,anthropologists, psychologists, andjournalists who have dedicated their careersto studying modern romance—and who werevery generouswiththeir time. Here’s alist thatI’m terrified I’m going to leavesomeone off of: danah boyd of Microsoft;Andrew Cherlin of JohnsHopkins University; Stephanie Coontz of EvergreenStateCollege; Pamela Druckerman of the New York Times;Kumiko Endoof theNew School,who also assisteduswithour research in Tokyo;EliFinkel ofNorthwesternUniversity; HelenFisher ofRutgers University;Jonathan Haidt of NYU; Sheena Iyengar of Columbia University; Dan Savage;Natasha Schüllof MIT;BarrySchwartzof SwarthmoreCollege; Clay Shirky of NYU; Sherry Turkle ofMIT; andRobb Willer of Stanford, who also helped us design some research questionsand analyzeourdata. In additionto these interviews,we gotaccess to someamazing quantitative data that we use extensively here. Forthe past five years, Match.comhas sponsored the largest survey of American singlesaround, a nationally representativesampleof about five thousand people with questionsaboutall kinds offascinatingbehaviorsand preferences. Match generously shared itwith us, and we, inturn,willshare our analysisof itwithyou. We’ve also benefited from the goodwillof Christian Rudder and OkCupid, which has collected a treasure troveof data on howits users behave. This informationhasbeen incrediblyuseful, because it allows us to distinguish between what people say they wantand what people actually do. Another great sourceof data was Michael Rosenfeld at StanfordUniversity, who shared materialfrom the “How Couples Meet and Stay Together” survey, a nationally representative survey of 4,002 English-literate adults, threequarters ofwhom hada spouse or romantic partner. Rosenfeld, aswell as anotherresearcher, Jonathan Haidtof NYU,gave us permission tousecharts thatthey’d developed inthis book. Big thanks to them both. With the help ofall these people, Eric andImanaged to cover avast set of issues related to modernromance, butwe didn’tcover everything. One thing that I definitely want you to know up front is thatthis book is primarily about heterosexual relationships. Early in the processEric andIrealized thatif we tried towriteabout how all the different aspects ofromance we address applied toLGBT relationships, we simply wouldn’tbeable todo the topic justicewithout writing an entirely separatebook. We do coversome issues relating to love andromance among gays and lesbians, but not at all exhaustively. Theother thing Iwant to say hereis that most ofthe research we did involved speaking with middle-class people, folks who had gone to college andput off having kidsuntil their late twenties orthirties andnowhave quite intense and intimate relationshipswiththeir expensive smartphones. I know that loveand romance work differentlyin very poor and very rich communities, both in the United States and in theother countrieswe visited for our research. But again, Ericand I felt that studying all thevariations related to class would overwhelmus, so that’s not in the book. Okay, that’spretty much whatyouneedto know by way of introduction. But beforewebegin, Ido want to givea sincere thanks toyou —the reader. Youcould have bought any bookin theworld ifyou wanted. Youcould have picked upa copy of Unruly: The Highs and Lows of Becoming a Man by Ja Rule. You could havebought Rich Dad, Poor Dad. You could haveeven bought Rich Ja, Poor Ja: Ja Rule’s Guide to Sensible Finance. Youcould have bought all ofthose books(andmaybe you did!), except for thelast one, which, despite my repeated e-mails, Ja Rule continuesto refuse to write. But you also bought mine. Andforthat Ithank you. Now, let’s begin our journey into the world of . . . modern romance! CHAPTER1SEARCHIN FOR YOUR SOUL MATE Manyof the frustrations experienced bytoday’s singlesseem likeproblems uniqueto our timeand technologicalsetting: not hearingback ona text. Agonizingoverwhat really is your favorite movie for your online datingprofile. Wondering whetheryou should teleport over some roses tothat girlyou had dinnerwithlastnight. (REALLY SKEPTICAL THAT THEY WILL FIGUREOUT TELEPORTATION BY BOOK RELEASE INJUNE 2015 AS I WAS TOLD BY MY SCIENCEADVISERS. EDITOR, PLEASE REMOVEIF TELEPORTATION KINKS HAVEN’T BEEN WORKED OUT.) Thesekindsof quirks are definitely new to theromantic world, but asI investigated and interviewed for thisbook, I found thatthe changesin romanceand love are much deeper andbigger inscale thanI realized. Right now I’m oneof millions ofyoung peoplewho are ina similar place. We are meetingpeople,dating, gettingintoand out of relationships, allwiththe hope offindingsomeone we truly love andwithwhom we sharea deepconnection. We mayeven want to getmarried and start a familytoo. This journey seems fairly standardnow, but it’s wildly differentfrom what people dideven justdecades ago. To be specific, I now seethat our ideas abouttwo things —“searching” and “the right person”—arecompletely differentfrom what they used to be. Which means our expectations about how courtship works aretoo. DOUGHNUTS FOR INTERVIEWS: A VISIT TO A NEW YORK RETIREMENT COMMUNITY If Iwanted tosee how things have changedover time, Ifigured thatI should start bylearning about the experiencesof the older generations stillaround today. Andthat meant talking to some oldfolks. Tobe honest,Itendto romanticize the past,and though I appreciateall the conveniences of modernlife, sometimesI yearn for simpler times. Wouldn’t it becool to be single in a bygoneera? I take a girl toa drive-in movie, we gohave a cheeseburger anda malt at the diner, and thenwemake outunder thestarsin my oldtimey convertible. Granted, this might havebeen toughin the fiftiesgiven mybrown skintone and racialtensions at the time, butin myfantasy, racialharmony is also part of the deal. So, tolearnabout romancein thisera, Ericand I wentdown to a retirement community onthe Lower EastSideof NewYork City to interviewsome seniors. We came armedwitha bigboxof Dunkin’ Donuts and some coffee, tools that the staff hadsaid wouldbe key to convincing theold folks to speak with us. Sure enough, when theseniors caught a whiffof doughnuts, theywere quickto pull up chairsand start answering our questions. One eighty-eight-yearoldman namedAlfredo took to thedoughnuts very quickly. About ten minutes into the discussion,to which he’d contributed nothing but his age and name, he looked at me with a confused expression,threwup his doughnut-covered hands, and left. Whenwe came backa fewdays laterto domore interviews,Alfredo was back. The staffexplainedthat Alfredo hadmisunderstood the purpose ofthe previous meeting—he thought we wanted to talk to himabout his time in the war—but he was now fully prepared to answer questions abouthis own experiences in loveand marriage. Once again,he was pretty quickto take downa doughnut, and then, faster thanyoucouldwipethe last fewcrumbs ofaFrench crulleroffyour upperlip, Alfredo was gone-zo. I can only hope that a similarly easy wayto scheme freedoughnuts presents itself to mewhenIgo into retirement. Thankfully, others were more informative. Victoria, age sixty-eight,grewup in NewYork City. She got married when she was twenty-one—to a manwho lived in thesame apartment complex, one flooraboveher. “I was standingin front ofmy buildingwithsome friendsand he approached me,” Victoria said. “He told me he liked me very much and asked if I’d like to go out with him. I didn’tsay anything. He asked metwoor three more times before I agreed to go outwithhim.” It was Victoria’sfirst date. They went to a movie and had dinnerather mom’s houseafterward. He soon becameher boyfriend and, after ayear of dating, her husband. They’ve beenmarriedfor forty-eightyears. WhenVictoriafirsttold me her story,it hadaspectsI expected tobecommon amongthe group—she married very young, her parents mether boyfriend almost immediately,and they shifted into marriagefairly quickly. I figured that the part about marrying someone who lived in her same building was kind ofrandom. But then thenext woman we spoke with,Sandra, seventy-eight,said she got married to a guy who lived justacross the street. Stevie, sixty-nine, married awoman who lived down thehall. Jose, seventy-five, married awoman who lived onestreet over. Alfredo married someone fromacross thestreet (probably the daughter of the neighborhood doughnutshop owner). It was remarkable. In total,fourteenof thethirty-six seniors I spoke with had ended up marrying someone who lived withinwalking distance oftheirchildhood home. People were marrying neighbors who lived onthe same street,in the same neighborhood,and evenin the samebuilding. It seemed abit bizarre. “Guys,” Isaid. “You’re in New York City. Did you everthink, Oh, maybe there’s some people outside of my building? Whylimit yourself so much? Why notexpand your horizons?” They justshruggedand said that it wasn’t what was done. After our interviews we examined whetherthis spoke to a larger trend. In 1932 a sociologist at the University ofPennsylvania namedJames Bossard looked through five thousand consecutive marriage licenses on filefor people who lived in thecity ofPhiladelphia. Whoa: One-third ofthe couples whogot married hadlivedwithin a five-block radius ofeach other beforetheygot married. Oneout of six hadlived withinthe same block. Most amazingly,one of every eight married couples hadlivedin the same building beforethey gotmarried.1 Maybethis trend of marryinglocally held in big cities but not elsewhere? Well, a lotof sociologists in the 1930s and 1940s were wondering thatsamething, and they reported their findings inthe leading social science journals ofthe time. Yep, their findings were remarkably similar to Bossard’s inPhiladelphia, with afew variations. For instance,people in smaller towns alsomarried neighbors when they were available. Butwhen they weren’t, because the poolwas toosmall, people expanded their horizons—but only as faras was necessary. As the Yale sociologistJohn Ellsworth Jr. said after a study ofmarriagepatterns in Simsbury,Connecticut (population 3,941): “People will go as faras they haveto to finda mate,but no farther.”2 Thingsare obviously very differenttoday. Ifound outsociologistsdon’t even do these sorts ofstudies onthe geographyof marriage at the citylevel anymore. Personally, I can’t thinkof even one friendwhomarried someone from their neighborhood,and hardly anyone who married a person fromtheir home city. Forthe most partmy friends married people they’d metduring their postcollege years, when theywere exposedto folks fromall over the country and in some cases alloverthe world. Thinkabout where you grew up as akid, your apartment buildingor your neighborhood. Could you imaginebeing married to one ofthose clowns? EMERGING ADULTHOOD: WHEN GROWN-UPS GROW UP One reason it’s so hard to imaginemarrying the peoplewegrew up withis thatthesedayswemarry much laterthanpeople in previous generations. For thegeneration of people I interviewed in the NewYork Cityretirement community,the average age ofmarriagewasaround twenty forwomen and twenty-three for men. Todaythe average age of first marriage is about twenty-sevenforwomen and twenty-nine for men,and it’s aroundthirtyforbothmen and women in big citieslike NewYork and Philadelphia. Whyhasthis age of first marriage increased so dramaticallyin the pastfew decades? Forthe young people who gotmarried in the 1950s, gettingmarriedwas the firststepin adulthood. After highschoolor college, you gotmarriedand you left the house. For today’sfolks, marriage is usually oneof the laterstages in adulthood. Now mostyoung people spendtheir twenties and thirtiesin anotherstage of life, where they goto university, startacareer, and experiencebeing an adult outside of their parents’ home beforemarriage. This periodisn’tallabout finding a mateand getting married. Youhave other priorities as well: getting educated, tryingoutdifferent jobs, having afew relationships, and, withluck, becoming a more fully developed person. Sociologistseven havea namefor this new stage of life: emerging adulthood. During this stagewealso wind upgreatly expanding our pool ofromantic options. Instead ofstaying in the neighborhood orourbuilding, we move tonew cities, spend years meeting people in college andworkplaces, and —in thebiggestgame changer—have the infinite possibilities providedby online datingand other similartechnologies. Besides theeffects ithas on marriage, emerging adulthoodalso offers young people an exciting,funperiod ofindependence fromtheir parents when they get to enjoy thepleasuresof adulthood—before becoming husbands and wivesand startinga family. Ifyou’relike me, you couldn’t imagine getting married without going through allthis. WhenI was twenty-three,I knew nothing about what I was goingto be asanadult. Iwasa business and biologymajor at NYU. WouldIhave married some girl who lived afew blocks fromme in Bennettsville, SouthCarolina, where I grew up?What was thismysterious “biology business” I planned on settingup, anyway? I have no clue. Iwasan idiot who definitely wasn’treadyfor such huge life decisions.* Theseniorswe spoke with simplydid not havesuch alife stage, and many seemed to regretthe lack of it. This was especially true for the women, who didn’t have much chanceto pursue higher education and start careersof their own. Before the 1960s, in most parts ofthe United States, single women simply didn’t livealone, and many familiesfrowned upon their daughters moving into shared housingfor “working girls.” Until they gotmarried, these womenwere prettymuch stuckathomeunder fairly strict adult supervision and lackedbasic adult autonomy. They always had tolet their parents know their whereabouts and plans. Even dating had heavyparental involvement: The parents wouldeitherhave toapprove the boy or accompany them on the date. At onepoint during a focus groupwitholder women, I asked them straight outwhether a lotof women their age got married justto get out ofthe house. Every single woman there nodded. For womenin thisera,it seemedthat marriage was the easiest wayof acquiring the basic freedoms of adulthood. Thingsweren’ta breeze after that, though. Marriage, most women quickly discovered,liberated them fromtheir parents butmade them dependent on a man who mightor mightnottreat them welland then saddled them with the responsibilities ofhomemaking and child rearing. It gave women ofthis era what was describedatthe time by Betty Friedan in her best-selling book The Feminine Mystique as “the problem that has no name.”* Once women gained access to the labormarket and won the rightto divorce, the divorcerate skyrocketed. Some of the olderwomen I metin our focus groupshad lefttheir husbands during the height of the divorce revolution,and they told me thatthey’d always resented missing out onsomething singularand special: the experienceof being a young, unencumbered, single woman. They wanted emerging adulthood. “I think Imissed a stage in my life,the stage where you go out with friends,” a womannamedAmelia wistfully told us. “I was never allowed togo out with friends. Myfather wouldn’t allow it. He was thatstrict. So I tellmy granddaughters, ‘Enjoy yourself. Enjoy yourself. Then get married.’” Hopefullythis doesn’tlead to Amelia’sgranddaughters doinga ton ofecstasyand thentelling their mom, “Grandma told me toenjoy myself! Leaveme alone!!” This sentimentwas widely shared. Everyone, including thewomen who said they werehappily married,said theywanted their daughters and granddaughtersto approach marriage differently from how theyhad. They wanted the young womenthey knew to datea lot ofmen and experiencedifferent relationshipsbefore they took ahusband. “My daughter, I told hergo out,get an education,get acar,enjoy yourself,” said Amelia. “Then, at the end, choose someone.” Even Victoria,whohad been marriedforforty-eight years to the man who grew up in theapartment above her, agreed. Sheemphasized that she loved herhusband dearly buthinted that, givenanother chance, she might have done something else. “My husband and I, we understand each other,” she said. “Butwe’revery different. SometimesI wonder, if I hadmarried someone who had the same interests asme .. .” She trailed off. Maybeshewasinterested in doughnuts and was thinking abouta life with Alfredo? THE LUXURY OF HAPPINESS: FROM COMPANIONATE TO SOUL MATE MARRIAGE Theshift inwhen we look forlove andmarriage has been accompanied bya changein what we lookfor inamarriagepartner. When the olderfolksI intervieweddescribed the reasonsthatthey dated,got engaged to, and thenmarried their eventualspouses, they’d say things like “He seemed likea pretty good guy,” “She was anice girl,” “He hada good job,” and “She had access to doughnuts and I like doughnuts.”* Whenyouaskpeople today why theymarried someone, theanswers are much more dramatic and loving. You hear things along the lines of “She is my other half,” “Ican’timagine experiencingthe joysof life without him bymy side,” or “EverytimeI touch herhair, I get a huge boner.” On our subredditwe asked people: Ifyou’ve been married orin along-term relationship, how did you decidethat theperson was (or stillis) the right person for you? Whatmade this person differentfrom others?The responses werestrikingly unlike theones we got from the olderpeoplewe metatthe senior center. Manywere filledwith stories thatillustrateda very deep connectionbetween the twopeople thatmade them feellike they’dfound someone unique,notjust someone who was pleasant to starta family with. One woman wrote: The first moment I truly remember falling in love with my boyfriend was when I was singing Whitney Houston’s “Greatest Love of All” under my breath to myself while we were studying near each other and then he started singing it at the top of his lungs. And we sang the whole song just laughing and dancing around the room. Moments like those where I feel so free and goofy and loved make me know he is the right person. Also I feel like since we’ve been together, I have become the best version of myself. I push myself to try different things and keep learning even though I’m out of school. It’s so much for myself but having his support in my corner has made all the difference. Another woman wrote: He makes me laugh, and if I don’t feel like laughing, he stops and takes the time to find out why. He makes me feel beautiful and loved in my most ugly and unlovable moments. We also share the same faith, morals, work ethic, love of movies and music, and the desire to travel. Andone said: He’s different from everyone because: He’s a one-of-a-kind human being. There is no one in this world like him. He is stunning, and I am amazed by him every single day. He’s made me a better person for having known and loved him. 5 years going strong and I’m still obsessed with him. He is my best friend. Allof these peoplehad foundsomeone trulyspecial. From the waytheydescribed things, it seemed liketheir barforcommitting to someone was muchhigher thanit had been for the older folks who settleddown justa fewgenerations ago. Tofigureout why people today use suchexaltedterms when theyexplain why they committedto their romantic partner, Ispoke with Andrew Cherlin, theeminent sociologist ofthe family and authorof thebook The Marriage-Go-Round.Up until about fifty yearsago, Cherlinsaid,mostpeople weresatisfiedwith whathe calls a “companionate marriage.” In this typeof marriage each partner had clearly defined roles. A man was the head of hishousehold and the chiefbreadwinner, while awoman stayed home, took care of the house, and had kids. Most of the satisfaction yougained in the marriage dependedon how wellyou fulfilled this assigned role. As a man,if you brought home the bacon, you could feellike you were agood husband. As a woman, if you kept aclean house and poppedout2.5kids, you were agood wife. You lovedyour spouse, maybe, but notin an “every time I seehis mustache, myheartflutters likea butterfly” typeof way. Youdidn’tmarry each other becauseyouwere madly inlove;youmarried because you could make a familytogether. While some people said they weregetting married for love,the pressure to getmarriedand start a familywassuch thatnot every match could be a love match,soinsteadwehad the “good enough marriage.” Waitingfortruelove was aluxurythat many, especially women, could not afford. In the early 1960s, afull 76 percent of womenadmitted theywould be willing to marrysomeone they didn’t love. However, only 35 percent of the men said they woulddo the same.3 Ifyou were awoman, you had far less timeto find a man. True love?Thisguy has ajob and a decentmustache. Lock itdown, girl. Thisgets intoa fundamental change inhow marriage is viewed. Today we seegetting married as finding a lifepartner. Someone we love. But this whole ideaof marrying for happiness and loveis relatively new. For most ofthe historyof our species, courtship and marriage weren’t really about twoindividuals findinglove and fulfillment. According to the historian Stephanie Coontz, authorof Marriage, a History,until recently a maritalunion was primarily important for establishing a bond between two families. It was about achieving security —financial, social, and personal. Itwasabout creatingconditions thatmade it possible tosurvive and reproduce. This isnotancient history. Untilthe Industrial Revolution, most Americans and Europeans lived on farms, and everybody in the household needed to work. Considerations about whom to marry wereprimarily practical. In the past,aguy would be thinking, Oh, shit, I gotta have kids to work on my farm. I need four-year-old kids performing manual labor ASAP. And I need a woman who can make me clothes. I better get on this. Awoman wouldthink, I better find a dude who’s capable on the farm and good with a plow so I don’t starve and die. Making sure the person shared your interestin sushi and Wes Andersonmovies and madeyouget aboner anytimeyoutouched herhair wouldseemfartoo picky. Of course, people did get married because they loved each other, but their expectations about what love wouldbring weredifferent fromthose weholdtoday. For familieswhosefuture security depended ontheir children makinggood matches,passionwasseenas an extremely risky motivation for gettinghitched. “Marriage was toovitalaneconomic and political institution to be entered into solely onthe basis ofsomething as irrationalas love,” writes Coontz.4 Coontz also told us that beforethe 1960s most middle-class people had pretty rigid,gender-based expectations about what each person would bring to a marriage. Women wanted financialsecurity. Men wanted virginity and weren’t concerned with deeper qualities like education or intelligence. “Theaveragecouple wed after justsixmonths—a pretty goodsign that lovewas stillfilteredthrough strong gender stereotypes ratherthan being basedon deep knowledge of the other partneras an individual,” she said. Notthat people who got married beforethe 1960s had lovelessmarriages. On the contrary, back then couples often developed increasingly intense feelings for eachother asthey spent time together, growing up and building their families. These marriages mayhave started with a simmer, but over time they could buildto aboil. But a lotof things changed inthe 1960s and 1970s, including our expectations ofwhat we should getoutof a marriage. The pushforwomen’s equalitywasa big driver of the transformation. As more womenwent tocollege, got good jobs,and achieved economic independence, they established newfound control over their bodies andtheir lives. A growingnumberof womenrefused to marry the guy in their neighborhood or building. They wantedto experiencethings too, and theynowhad thefreedomto do it. According toCherlin, the generation that came of age during the sixties and seventiesrejected companionate marriage and began to pursuesomething greater. They didn’t merely wanta spouse—they wanted asoul mate. By the1980s, 86 percent ofAmericanmen and91 percent of American women said they wouldnot marry someone withoutthe presence ofromanticlove.5 Thesoul mate marriage is very different from the companionate marriage. It’s notabout finding someone decentto starta family with. It’s about finding theperfect person whom youtruly, deeply love. Someone you wantto sharethe rest of your lifewith. Someonewith whom, when you smella certain T-shirtthey own,you are instantly whisked to a happy memoryaboutthe time he orshemade you breakfast and you both stayed inand binge-watched all eight season of Perfect Strangers. We wantsomething that’s very passionate, or boiling,fromthe get-go. In the past, people weren’t looking for something boiling; they justneeded somewater. Oncethey found it andcommitted toa life together,they did their bestto heat thingsup. Now, if things aren’t boiling, committing to marriage seems premature. But searching for asoul matetakes alongtimeand requiresenormous emotional investment. Theproblem is thatthis searchforthe perfect person can generatea lot of stress. Younger generations face immensepressure to find the “perfectperson” that simplydidn’texist in thepast when “good enough” was good enough. Whenthey’resuccessful, though,the payoff is incredible. According to Cherlin, thesoul mate marriage has the highest potential for happiness, andit delivers levels offulfillment thatthe generation of older people I interviewed rarely reached. Cherlinis alsowell awareof how hard it is to sustainall these goodthings, and heclaims that today’s soulmate marriage modelhas the highestpotentialfor disappointment. Since our expectations are so high, today people arequickto break things off when their relationshipdoesn’t meet them (touchthe hair,no boner). Cherlin would also likeme to reiterate thatthis hair/boner analogy is mine and minealone. Thepsychotherapist EstherPerelhascounseled hundreds ofcoupleswhoare havingtrouble intheir marriages,and asshesees things, asking all of this from amarriageputs a lotof pressure onrelationships. In herwords: Marriage was an economic institution in which you were given a partnership for life in terms of children and social status and succession and companionship. But now we want our partner to still give us all these things, but in addition I want you to be my best friend and my trusted confidant and my passionate lover to boot, and we live twice as long. So we come to one person, and we basically are asking them to give us what once an entire village used to provide: Give me belonging, give me identity, give me continuity, but give me transcendence and mystery and awe all in one. Give me comfort, give me edge. Give me novelty, give me familiarity. Give me predictability, give me surprise. And we think it’s a given, and toys and lingerie are going to save us with that.6 Ideally, though,we’re lucky, and we findoursoul mateand enjoy that life-changing mother lodeof happiness. But a soulmate is a very hard thing tofind. FINDING YOUR SOUL MATE Okay, so no one said searching forasoulmate would be easy. Still,in many ways itseemslike today’s generation of singlesisbetter off becauseof thechanges in modern romance. Taking time to developourselves and date different people before we getmarried helps us make better choices. Forinstance, people who marry after the age oftwenty-fiveare farless likely todivorce than those who get married young.7 We also don’t even have to getmarriedif we don’t wantto. Getting marriedand startinga family was once seemingly the only reasonablelife course. Today we’ve become far more accepting of alternative lifestyles, andpeoplemove in and out of different situations: single with roommates, single andsolo, single with partner, married, divorced,divorced and living with an iguana, remarried with iguana, thendivorced with seven iguanas because your iguanaobsessionruined your relationship,and, finally, single with six iguanas (Arturowassadly run over by anicecreamtruck). There areno longerany predetermined life paths. Each of us is onourown. Whenwe do marry, we are marrying for love. Weare finding our soul mates. And the tools we have to find our soulmates are incredible. We aren’t limited tojust the bing-bongs who livein our building. We haveonline dating that givesusaccess to millions andmillionsof bing-bongs around the world. We can filterthemany waywe want. When we go out, we can use smartphonesto text any numberof suitors while we are out barhopping. We aren’t constrainedby landlinesand relegatedto whomever wehave made firmplans with. Our romantic optionsare unprecedented and our tools to sort andcommunicate with them are staggering. Andthat raisesthe question: Why are so many people frustrated? For thebook, Eric andI wanted to seewhat would happenif we were able to gathergroups from differentgenerationsto discuss dating pastand present. We organized a large focusgroupof two hundred people. We sent out an invite and said that anyone who attended had to bring one or twoparents to theevent. Then, when people showed up, we split the families into twodifferent sections— youngfolkson theleft and parents onthe right. We spent an hourgoing backand forth between thesides, asking people to explain how they metnew people todate,asked each other out, and made decisions about marriage and commitment. Whenwe talked to the older people who were in happy, successful marriages, the way theyhad met soundedquaint and simple, with much less stress than singlesgo throughtoday. Sure, theymet at a youngage and probably weren’tas sophisticated then as they laterbecame, but asone womantoldme: “We grew up and changedtogether. And hereweare in our sixties,still together.” People from the older generation there that night had almostalways askedeach other out immediately over the phoneor inperson. This is howa gentlemannamed Tim described the firsttime he asked out his future wife: “I saw her atschool,and I said, ‘You know, Ihave these ticketsto seethe Who at Madison Square Garden .. . ’” That sounds infinitely cooler than textingback and forthwithagirlfortwo weeks onlyto have her flake on seeing a SugarRay concert. WhenI talked to the people about datingback in the day,they saidthey’d goto onebar ora mixer,whichwas likea community dance, usually put onby achurch or college orother local institution, where young people could talk and meet. They’d stay there thewhole night and have one ortwo drinks. That seems more pleasant thanwhatIsee out in bars today,which is usually a bunch of people staring at theirphonestrying to findsomeone orsomething more exciting thanwhere theyare. Whataboutall our options?Wecan find the perfect personnow, right? The oldfolksactually saw all this choice as a disadvantage. They expressed sympathyand concern abouttheirchildren’s situation—and gratitudethat things hadbeen simpler, albeit farfrom perfect, when theywere young. “Something I haveto say in defense of the young folks today is thatthere’s just so many choices outthere,” one mom said. “When I was growing up,therewas a mixerand there was abar, and that was about it. But now—mygod. Iwould really hate tobe singlenowadays.” “Whydo you thinkit’s so bad forthem?” I asked. “Think about all theoptions youngpeople have now, all the doorsthat arethere for them to open.” Theolder folks weren’t buying it. They understood thatthey had had fewer optionswhenthey were growing up,but, intriguingly, theydidn’tseem to regret havingfewerchoices. As one womanexplained, “You didn’t think aboutthechoices you had. When you found someone you liked, you jumpedintoarelationship. I don’tthink we thought, Well, there are another twelve doors or another seventeen doors or another four hundred and thirty-three doors,” she said. “We saw a door wewanted, and so we took it.” Now, lookatmy generation. We’re ina hallway with millions of doors. That’s a lot of doors. It’s nice tohave all those options. But—a hallwaywith millions of doors?Is that better? Is itterrifying? On theone hand, you haveso manydoors to try. And thatsoundsbetterthan being shoved into a door when youare really young and maybenot quite ready to be an adult. On theother hand,maybepeople in those earlier generations were ready to open a door on their own. After all, thinkof Amelia, Victoria, and all those other womenwho were dyingto get out oftheir parents’ housesforgood andpretty happy torace into the first door they saw. Sometimes the marriages theyraced into woundup being lonelyand difficult. Butoften they blossomed into something lovingand fulfilling. Todaywewanta bunch ofdoors as options andwe are very cautiousaboutwhich oneweopen. The emerging adulthoodphase oflife is basically a passsocietygives you to hang out in the hallway and figureoutwhat door is really right for you. Being in that hallway might be frustrating at times,but ideally you growand mature, and you finda doorthat really works foryou when you’re ready. People who are looking for love today havean unprecedented setof options in thesearch for an amazing romantic partner or, ideally, soulmate. We can marry pretty muchwhomever we wantto,regardless of their sex,gender,ethnicity, religion, or race—or even location. We’remorelikely thanthe generations that came before us to have relationshipsin which both partnersare equals. And, unlike manyin prior generations, nearly allof us will only marrysomeone we love. Thething is,withall these newpossibilities,the process offinding thatperson can be seriously stressful. And,unlike the dayswhen most everyonegotmarried by their midtwenties, today the searchforlove can go on for decades. No moremarrying the upstairs neighboror thegirl nextdoor. No moregoing steady (forever) with your high school sweetheart. No more “Hey, Mom and Dad, thatperson in the living roomseemsnice. Coolif we get married inthreemonths?” Instead we havea whole new romanticculture based on anepic search forthe right person. A searchthat can take us through college and variouscareer stages. A searchthat also takesnew forms, becausein today’s romantic climate a lotof the action happens onour screens. PHONE WORLD In 2014 the average American spent444 minutesper day—nearly 7.5 hours—in front ofa screen, be ita smartphone, tablet,television,or personal computer. That’s higherthan thenumbersin most European countries, where people spend “only” 5 to 7 hoursper day with screens, yetit’s not nearly enoughto putthe United Statesin thetop five nations: China,Brazil, Vietnam,the Philippines,and,in first place, Indonesia,where people spend 9 hours per day staring at a screen.8 That 7.5 hours numberis really high, butI charted my own use and itdoesn’t seem tooimplausible. Todayis a fairlynormalSunday morningin LosAngeles for me. I woke upand spenta while textingwithmy friends Nickand Chelseaabout a potential brunchdestination. I thenhopped on mylaptop to research the suggested restaurants. Iwenton Yelp and the restaurantpages to peep the menus and did random browsing inbetween (reading whatever silly headlines caughtmy eye on Reddit*and watching highlightsfrom theprevious night’s Saturday Night Live), theneventually,afterabout twenty back-and-forthsthat lasted anhour and seven minutes, Chelseaand Nick decided they justwantedto go to acasual diner nearby. I didn’t feel like goingthere. We didn’t evenend up gettingbrunch together. Instead I went to another place, Canelé, with another brunchcrew. During that brunch, a Nelly song came on and Iresearched theNelly Wikipedia page, as one must do anytime Nelly-related questionsplagueone’smind. After brunch, on theway home, I texted with afew other people aboutpotential dinnerplans.* And now I’m at home ona laptopagain, typingoutstufffor this chapter that youare reading rightnow, possiblyon a screenas well! Theway I spent theday trying to plan brunchis remarkably similar tohow mytenure in thesingleworld wentas well: making or attemptingto makeplans on myphone with whoever was in my dating orbit at the time. Like my brunchwithChelsea and Nick, many times these planswould eventually fall through. And in thesame way I cautiously researchedthese restaurants,young singles are researching oneanother—on dating sites or socialmedia sites oreven justdoing general Googling to geta better sense ofa potential date. As I’ve cometo seeit, we’re spending so much time with our digitaldevices because we’ve alldeveloped our own personal “phone worlds.” Through our phone world we are connected to anyone and everyone inourlives, fromourparents to a casual acquaintance whom wefriend on Facebook. For younger generations, their sociallives playoutthrough socialmedia sites likeInstagram,Twitter, Tinder,and Facebook as much asthrough campuses, cafés, and clubs. But inrecent years, asmore andmore adults have begunspending more andmore time on their own digitaldevices,just about everybodywiththe meansto buy adevice and a data plan has become a hyperengaged participantin their phone world. Phone world is the place you go when you want to find someone tosee a moviewith. It’s where yougo todecide whatmovie togo see. It’s where you buythe tickets. It’s where youlet your friend know you havearrived atthe theater. It’swhereyour friend tells you, “Shit, I’m at the wrongtheater,” and where you say, “What thefuck, man?Youalways dothis. Fine. I’m off tosee G.I. Joe: Retaliation alone,AGAIN.” Andnowthat our phone worldsareintegralto even the most mundane oftasks,of course,they arealso abig part of wherewelive our romantic lives. Today, if you own a smartphone, you’re carryinga 24-7 singles bar inyourpocket. Press afew buttonsatany time ofthe day, andyou’reinstantly immersed in anocean of romantic possibilities. At first, swimming through that oceanmay seem amazing. Butmostmodern singlesquicklyrealize that it takes a tonof effort tostay afloat, and even more to find the right person andget to shore together. There’ssomuchgoing on in thosewaters, so many quick decisions and difficult moves to make. Andof allthe challenges, there’s none more daunting than figuringout whatto dowhen you find someone who interests you. As we saw in my example with Tanya, no matter how simple itmay seem, the initialaskcan be plaguedwithstressand frightening ramifications. CHAPTER2THE INITIAL ASK Asking someoneout on adate is asimple task thatfrequently becomes a terrifying conundrumof fear, self-doubt, and anxiety. It’s full oftough decisions:How do Iask?In person?Phone call? Text? What doI say? Could thisperson be the person Iend up spending the rest of mylife with? What if this is theonly person for me? What ifIfuck it all up with the wrong message? Though technology has added afew new, modern quirksto this dilemma, asking anew person to go on a romantic outing has never been easy. Itmeans declaring your attraction tosomeone and puttingyourselfout there in a huge way, while risking the brutal possibility of rejection—or, inthe modern era, even anunexplained, icycoldsilence. For themoderndater the first decision is picking the medium to use:call ortext. Some peopleeven throwemail or social media messagingintothe mix. Justa generation ago the landline or even a newspaper classified ad wouldhave beena first stopto finding romance. Today, though, we look at our screens almostimmediately. Infact,for many daters a large chunk oftheir romantic worldlives in theirphone world. A quick note: The numbers showthat men are stilloverwhelmingly the ones expected toinitiate the first ask. In 2012only12 percent ofAmericanwomen had asked anyoneoutinthe previous year. So when discussing this,I use the situationof a guy asking a girl out. The issues discussed generally translate both ways (minusthe issue of girls hating dudes initiatingwith penisphotos). Allright,let’s see what the overall trends are. In 2013the Match.com survey researchersasked Americans: “If youwere asking someoneout ona first date, which method of communicationwould you be most likely to useto get in contact?” Here’s what they found: Two things tonotehere. First, the dropin phone calls asa preferred methodwhen you changeage groups(52 percent to23 percent) is stark. Among teenagersthe percentagewhousetext messagingis even higher. In a2012 textPlussurvey,58 percent of Americans between ages thirteen and seventeen said they’d ask someone out with a text message.1It’sclear that younger people, who are growing up in a more text-heavy culture, are muchmore comfortable livingtheir romantic livesvia text. Second, over time,soare all ofus. In 2010only 10 percent ofyoung adults usedtexts to ask someone out for thefirst time,comparedwith32 percent in2013. Asking out someone viatextis oncourse to be thenew norm: The phone callis quickly being phasedout. It’sworth pausing here to notethat this isan insanely fast transformation in howwe communicate. Formany generations young people used telephone calls toreach outto possible romantic partners. It was aharrowing experiencethat we allcould relateto. Before the initial ask,youwould hearterrifying rings andthen an answer. It could be theobjectof your desireor a roommateor even aparent. At thatpoint you wouldaskto speak with the person you wanted toaskout. Ifthey were around, the person would finallysay, “Hello,” and a mild panic wouldensue. Youwould haveto spendsome time chattingthemup, tryingto forma bondwhilealso setting things up for a possiblyawkward segueinto adate ask. “Hey, so yeah, anyway, I lostthe pie-eating contest . .. You wannasee a movie sometime?” This phone-call ask required some braveryto initiate and someskills to executeproperly, butover time you’dget better at it and you would strategizethese calls. Let’s say you werea youngman namedDarren. At first,your calls might be something like this: DARREN: Hey, Stephanie. It’s me . . . Darren. STEPHANIE: Hey, Darren, how are you? DARREN: I’m good. DARREN: [long pause] DARREN: Okay .. . Bye. But soon you’d get better. With time, you’d realizehowto be confident on thesekindsof calls. You’d havea funny anecdote or conversationpiece ready. Witty banterwould be at the tipof yourtongue, and soon you and Stephanie would be twoverbal fencers parrying and riposting it uplike this: DARREN: Hey, Stephanie. It’s me, Darren! [confident, energetic] WOMAN: Hey, Darren. This is Stephanie’s mom. One second . . . DARREN: Shit. [quiet] DARREN: You got this, Darren. You got this. [quiet] STEPHANIE: Hello? DARREN: Hey, Stephanie. It’s me, Darren! [back to confident, energetic] STEPHANIE: Oh, hey, Darren. What’s up? DARREN: I just got an umbrella! STEPHANIE: Cool .. . DARREN: All right, bye! Well. You’d getbetterthan that. Theskillthat went into makingaphonecall to a romantic interestis one that younger generations may never needor want to build. As our technology becomes more prevalent in our lives, romantic behavior thatseemsstrange or inappropriateto one generation can becomethe normforpeople in thenext one. For instance,in arecent survey 67percent ofteens said they’d accept an invitationto promby text.2 For oldergenerationsthe idea ofgetting invited to something as specialas prom by a textmessage may sound coldand impersonal. It seems inappropriateforthe occasion. But younger folks livein atext-heavy environment and this shapes their perception of what is appropriate. Forexample, in a topic we’ll revisitinmore depth later,breakingup with someone viatextseemspretty brutalto people ofmy generation, butwhenwe interviewedyoungerpeople, severalsaid their breakups happenedexclusivelyby text. For younger generations, who knows what texts lieahead? THE RISE OF THE TEXT MESSAGE Texting,otherwiseknown as Short MessageService (SMS), was thought up by Friedhelm Hillebrand, a German engineer,in 1984 and achievedfor the first time by NeilPapworth, a young Britishengineer who messaged his friend “Merry Christmas” in1992. Alas, his friend didn’t reply, because hismobile phone didn’t allow him to input text.3 Sure it didn’t. That’s the same shitI hearfrom friends who don’trespond tomy mass “MerryChristmas” text. I eventhrow ina custom image every year; peep this onefrom 2012. That said, can you imaginehowinsane that must havebeen—to get the first text of all time? Whenno one knew whata text was? It wouldhave beenlike “WHY ARE THEREWORDS ON MY PHONE???PHONES ARE FOR NUMBERS!!” In 1997Nokia introduced amobile phonewitha separatekeyboard,setting things upfor the BlackBerry epidemicthat would soon afflictmost of the global yuppiecommunity, but it wasn’t until1999that text messages couldcross from onephonenetwork to another, and after thatusage began to rise. In 2007 the number oftexts exchanged in amonth outnumbered the number ofphone calls made in theUnited States for the first time in history. Andin 2010 people sent6.1 trillion texts across the planet, roughly 200,000 perminute. Technology companies haveintroduced allkinds of new services tohelp us exchange shortmessages,and we’ve responded bytapping away like never before. And ofcourse, thishastranslated to a vast increase in the number ofromantic interactions that are being carried out over text. One reason for thespike in asking peopleout bytextis thatfar moreof us have smartphones with big screens thatmake messaging fun and easy. According toconsumer surveys, the portionof all American adults whoowned asmartphone went from 17 percent in2010 to 58percent in 2014, andthey’remost prevalent among those emerging adults between ages eighteen and twenty-nine,83 percent of whomcarrya smartphonewhereverthey go.4Whenwe’renotdoing traditionaltexting, we now haveapps likeWhatsApp, Facebook Messenger, iMessage, anddirect messagingon Twitter, which allow us to message for free. Throughout the world a growing numberof people are using SMSforbasic communications, and young people in particular have adoptedtexting at the expenseof old-fashioned phone calls. That said, we haven’t given upourold habits altogether. Manypeople, including young adults,enjoy an occasionalphonecall and even think thatitcan signal something special in a budding relationship. But when we first started talking to peopleabouthowthey ask oneanother out,welearned thatwithall these technologicaltransitions,our feelings aboutwhen to use which medium havegotten pretty mixed up and confused. How dowe figure outwhento call, when to text, andwhento justdrop everything, stand outside someone’s window, and serenade them with your favorite nineties R&B tune, perhaps “All My Life” by K-Ci &JoJo? For thatwe had to investigate. CALLING VERSUS TEXTING “A phone call? The WORST.” —FEMALE FOCUS GROUP PARTICIPANT “If you want to talk to me, you’re going to have to call me.” —ANOTHER FEMALE FOCUS GROUP PARTICIPANT [Dumbfounded] —EVERY GUY IN THAT FOCUS GROUP Theissue ofcalling versus texting generateda wide varietyof responses in our focus groups. Generally, younger dudes were fucking terrified ofcallingsomeone on a phone. This didn’t surpriseme thatmuch, but I was surprised thatyounger womenalsoexpressed terror at the thoughtof a traditional phone call. “Phonecalls suck and they give me anxiety,” said onetwenty-four-year-old woman. “Since texting started,an actualphonecall feels like an emergency,” said another. Othergirlsthought it was justtoo forwardfor someone tocall asthe first move andsaid thata text wouldbemore appropriatein general. However, otherwomen said receiving a phone call froma guy showedhehad confidence andhelped separatethose men from the pack of generic “Hey wsup” texts that normallyflood their messagingprograms. To these women, the guyswho call seembraveand mature. The phone conversations helped createa rapportthat madethemfeel comfortable and safeenough togo out with aperson theydidn’t know allthat well. A womanwho cameto oneof our focus groups discussed howshegotso fed up with text messagingthat she cut off her textingservice and couldonlybe reached by phone calls. This woman never wenton a date with a managain. No, she actually started dating someone soon afterward. Shealso claimed the guys who didwork upthe courage tocall herwere a better caliber of manand that she was,in effect,able to weed out a lotof thebozos. But with some women who loved phone calls, things weren’tthatsimple. In a rather inconvenient twist for would-be suitors, manysaid theyloved phone calls—but had no interest inanswering. “I often don’t answer,butI likereceivingthem,” saidone woman, who seemed oblivious tohowridiculous this statement sounded. For thisgroup, voice mailsprovided a screening systemof sorts. Whenthey explained this, it made sense to me. If themessage was fromsomeone they’d met briefly at abar, it letthem hearthe guy’s voice and madeit easier tosortout the creeps. Onegirl raved about a nice voice mail aguyhad recentlyleft her. Ikindly requestedsheplay itand heard this gem: “Hey,Lydia. It’s Sam. Justcalling to say what’s up. Gimme aring when youget a chance.” THAT WAS IT. I pleaded toknow what was so great about this. She sweetly recalled that “he remembered myname, he said hi, andhe told me tocall him back.” Never mind thefact that whatshedescribed was the contentof LITERALLY EVERY VOICE MAILIN HISTORY. Name, hello, please callback. Notreallya boatloadof charmon display. To failthis test, aguy would haveto leave a messagethat said: “No greeting. Thisis a man. Idon’t rememberyou. End communication.” Whenyoulookatoverall numbers on communication, you seethat we are generally textingmore and callingless. According toNielsen, Americans’ use of phones for voicecalls peakedin 2007; we’ve beencalling less, and speaking forfewerminutes, eversince.5 This changein communicationmayhave someside effects, though. In herbook Alone Together, MIT socialpsychologist Sherry Turkle convincingly makesthe casethat younger people are so usedto text-based communications,where theyhave time to gathertheir thoughts andprecisely plan whatthey aregoing tosay, thatthey arelosing their abilityto have spontaneous conversation. She argues that the muscles inourbrainthat helpuswithspontaneous conversationare gettingless exercisein thetext-filled world, so our skills are declining. Whenwe didthe large focus groupwherewe split the room by generation—kids on the left, parents on the right—a strangething happened. Beforethe show started,we noticed that the parents’ side ofthe roomwas full ofchatter. People were talkingto oneanother and asking how theyhad ended up attheeventand gettingto know people. Onthe kids’ side, everyonewasburied in their phones andnottalking to anyonearound them. It made me wonder whetherourability anddesire to interactwithstrangers is anothermusclethat risks atrophy in thesmartphone world. You don’t need to makesmalltalk with strangerswhen you can read the Beverly Hills, 90210 Wikipedia pageanytime you want. Honestly, whatstranger can competewitha video that documents the budding friendshipof two baby hippopotamuses? No one, that’s who. At a minimum,young people are growing anxious about real-time phone conversations withpeople theydon’t knowwell, and particularly with potential dates. “I havesocial anxiety, and having to respond or reacton the spot to a phone call or in person would make me overanalyze everything and put myselfin atizzy,” oneyoung womantoldus. “I wouldwant totake mytime and think ofa response that is genuine.” Theobviousadvantage ofa text isthat a guy can text someone withouthaving to gather thecourage needed for aphone call. Ifyouaccept Turkle’s notion that menare also ingeneral gettingworse at spontaneous conversation, it makes sensethat this trend will continueto climb. I discussed this change in communicationwithTurkle in Los Angeles, and she broughtup an interesting thought about getting asked outoverthe phone back in the day. “When a guy called and asked yououtback then, it was a very specialthing. You feltspecial andit was very flatteringthat he gatheredthe courageto do it.” WhenI discussed whatI had heard from theinterviews with youngpeople today, Turkle said that being asked outthrough a textmessage has become so banal thatitno longergives women that sense offlattery. As far as theyknow,the guy who has sent themessage is hitting up lots of womenand waiting to seewho writes back. Unless he has sent somethingtruly distinctive andpersonal, a textjust isn’t all that meaningful. After many conversations with womenin the single world, Imustconcur. THE MODERN BOZO One firm takeaway fromall ourinterviews with women is thatmost dudesoutthere are straight-up bozos. I’ve spenthours talkingwith womenand seeingthe kind of “first texts” they getfrom guys, and trust me, it’s infuriating. Thesewere intelligent, attractive, amazing women and they all deserved better. Some people say that it doesn’tmatter whatyoutext someone. If theylike you, theylike you. After interviewing hundreds of singles, Icanscientifically confirmthat thisis total bullshit. For thosewhodoubt me, hereis anexample froma showI didatthe Chicago Theatrein the spring of2014. During thattour, after doingmaterial about texting, I wouldaskif anyonein the audience hadrecently met someone and had been textingback andforth. If they had, they would come upto the stageand I would picka fewpeopleand read,analyze, and ask themaboutwhatwas happening intheir messages. At thisparticular show I was speaking with Rachel, who had met aguyata good friend’s wedding. Asit happened, theguywasalso a friendof her sister’s,sohe had a prettygood shotata first datewith her. Shewas single. She was interested. Allhehad todo was send her asimple message introducing himselfand asking her to do something. Here’s whathappened. He sends his first message: As soonas I said “texty,” it was clearthat no one sitting in the3,600-seat Chicago Theatrewould ever fuck this dude in a million years. “Texty,” for whatever reason, seemedto be unequivocally disgusting toeveryone ofus there. He mightas well have added: “BTW I have areally disgusting next-levelSTD! Haha:-) but for real I do.” Rachelwroteback ten minuteslater: He wrote backshortly: Rachelnever met Will. After a fewmessages ofthis nature, Rachelstopped responding. None of us know Will. Hemay bea kind, handsome manwitha heart of gold. But allwehave togo on is thosemessages. Andthose messages have shapedin our minds a very dorky, terrifyingly Caucasian weirdo. Everything from “texty” to “tooooootally” to “Feliz Cumpleaños aswell!” had destroyed allchances of Rachel’s wantingto meet Will in reallife. So please, don’tlet anyone tellyouwhat you textsomeone doesn’t matter. Iftheydon’t believe you, “texty” introduce them to Will andthey’ll toooooootally changetheir mind. Theinteresting thing about textisthat, asa medium,it separatesyou fromthe person you are speaking with, so you can act differently from how you wouldin person oreven on the phone. In Alone Together Sherry Turkle tellsthe story ofa young boy whohad a standingappointmentfor a Sunday dinnerwithhis grandparents. Every week, he’d wantto canceland his mom would tellhimtocall his grandparents andtell them he wasn’t coming. However, he never would, becausehe couldn’t bear to hear the disappointmentin their voices. If it were text, though, he probablywouldn’t have thought twice about it. As a medium,it’s safeto say, textingfacilitates flakiness and rudenessand many other personality traits that would notbe expressed in a phone call or an in-person interaction. Beyond flakiness, as far asdating goes, I’ve observed many men who, while hopefullydecenthuman beings in person, become sexually aggressive “douche monsters” whenhiding behindthe texts on their phone. The messages being sent areinarguably inappropriateand often quite offensive,but, again,over textthe consequences of the recipient’s being offendedare minimal. Youdon’tsee their face. You don’thear their voice. And they aren’tthere in personto look horrified or throwa heavy object at your dumbhead. On theother hand,on the tiny off chancethey are interested, you areallset. It’s this dimhope that many dumbdudes areclingingto when theysend these painfullyobnoxious texts. A website calledStraight White BoysTextinghas become a hubfor women to submitthesehorrifying(and often hilarious) texts that guyshave sentthem. As described on the site, the blog came about dueto the phenomenon in which a guy texts an ineptsexual advance like “hey what’s your bra size ;)” or “what wouldyou do if you were herehaha lol;)” apropos of nothing, in orderto try to hook upwithsomeone. This was knownas a “straightwhiteboytext,” hencethe nameof theblog, but, tobe clear, the siteis inclusiveof douchey dudesof all races, ethnicities, and sexualorientations. Herearea few favorites ofmine: This gentleman wastes no time. What’s interestingto me, though,is would thisguy everactthis wayin reallife? Doubtfulthat he’d just go up to a womanand say, “Afternoon sex?” and winkat her—unless he was some kind ofR&B superstar,in which casehe’dbe doing it all thetime and it would possiblybequitesuccessful. Here’s another: Again, I have toassume if this guy metthis womanat abar, his introduction would be something betterthan “I likeyour tits.” Thesite,and women’s phones everywhere, are filled with cringeworthyexchanges likethis. Andclearly,these are extremely horrible messages. Butfromour interviews we learned that even formen who don’t write such blatantly disgusting nonsense,the smallest changesin what theytext on ascreen can make a huge difference intheirdating successface-to-face. Sometimes guys who havemade a good impression in personand are on the verge ofa true connection decide to send somethingdumb and awful andtotally screw things up. Sure, there are extremes, likethe womanwho immediately lost interestafter aguyasked herto Snapchata photoof “justone boob.” However, themistakes people make are not always so egregious. Werepeatedly foundthat one textcan change the whole dynamic of abudding relationship. In a certain context, evenjust saying something as innocuous as “Hey, let’shang outsometime” or spelling errors or punctuation choices can irritate someone. When I spokewithSherry Turkle about this, she saidthat texting, unlikean in-person conversation, is not a forgiving medium for mistakes. In a face-to-face conversation, peoplecanread each other’sbody language, facialexpressions, andtones ofvoice. Ifyousay something wrong, youhave cues to sense itand you have amomentto recoveror rephrase before it makes a lasting impact. Even on the phone you can hear achange in someone’s voice ora pause to letyou knowhowthey are interpreting what you’ve said. Intext, your mistakejust sits there marinatingon theother person’sscreen, leaving a lasting recordof your ineptitude and bozoness. Thefactthat your interactions on your phone canhave sucha profound effect on people’s impressionof you as a person makes it clearthat you basically havetwo selves now—yourrealworld selfand your phone self. Thephone self is defined by whatever it is you communicateonto the other person’sscreen. I interviewed many womenwhotoldme thatthey didn’t always have sharp memories ofguys to whomthey gavetheir numbers after aconversation in a baror over drinks ata party. Inthat context, thefirst messagethey getcanbe a huge factor inwhether they reachback, and thephone self that’s presented makesall the difference. As you saw with the examplewith Rachel, evensmalltweaks of atext message can makethe difference between being perceivedas niceor mean, smart ordumb, funnyor boring. In our interviewsand focus groups, people inall partsof theworld generously opened upthe secretworld in their phones. I’ve probably scrolled through more text messageconversations than anyone andasked men and womenwhat we allare wondering: What was going on in your headwhenyou read/wrote that? What did you think of this guy/girl when youread this message? Itwas so fascinatingto see how people’s wordscould evoke such a widerangeof reactions. Let’s first look at the things that irritated people the most. THE GENERIC “HEY” TEXT After seeing hundreds and hundreds of messagesin women’s phones, Ican definitively say that most of the texts women receive are, sadly, utterly lacking in either thoughtor personality. Wantto know what’s filling upthe phones ofnearly every single woman?It’s this: “Hey,” “Hey!” Heyyy!!” “Hey what’s going?” “Wsup,” “Wsup!” “What’s going on?” “Whatcha upto?” It seems like a harmless messageto send, and I’ve surely sent a good number of them in my own dating life. I and allthe others who have sent similarmessages surely meant no offense. However, seeingit fromthe other side is eye-opening. When your phone is filledwiththat stuff, generic messagescomeoffas super dull and lazy. They makethe recipient feellike she’s not very specialor important to you. Oh, andin caseyou’re a dude and you’ve never seen whatyour “Hey” texts look likewhen you sendthem, serially, here’s anotherpost fromStraight White Boys Texting: THE SECRETARY PROBLEM Another irritating situation thatplaguesbothmen and women is theendless texting banter thatnever leads to a meet inthereal world. So many people trying tomake a connection wind up spending so much time typingand typingand trying toschedule things that eventually whateversparkmay have been there diminishes. Atour focus groupsweheard countless variations of an interaction that goes something like this: Fourdays later. Ninedays later. Six days later. At thispoint the conversationends. It’s amazing tosee this exchange go from its fun and flirtatious opening to justplainfizzling out. And you can see how it happens:Theygo from enjoying thebanter to trying to schedule something concrete, and allof a sudden they’reactinglike secretaries. Theother annoying thing about thisschedulingbanter is thatbothpartiesare sometimesleftwondering whetherthe person is actually busyor pretending to be busy, leading to more confusion and frustration. When you’reinvolved in this kind ofback-and-forth, it’s hard notto wonder whether the otherperson even has interest. THE ENDLESS BACK-ANDFORTH Scheduling chatteris merely one ofthemany forms of useless banter that makesdating inthedigital ageso frustrating, especially for womenover twenty-five,since they have lesspatience forconstant text exchanges. Another form, whichis especially common amongthe younger gentlemen out there, emerges when adudeis just tooshy to actually ask theother person to do something. Instead of negotiatingtimes and places, theywind up exchanging meaningless texts ad nauseam. I can’t tellyou how many girls I met whowere clearly interestedin aguywho, instead ofaskingthemout, justkept suckingtheminto more mundane banterwith gemslike “So where doyou do your laundry” What followsare ten back-andforthsaboutlaundry detergent. (“Yeah, Irecently switched tofragrance-free detergent. It’s been FANTASTIC.”) At a stand-up showI did in Tulsa, I met ayoung man named Cody. He came onstage andweread through his text messages. There were literally twenty messagesof useless,nervous banter. It was clearthis womanwas interested, but poorCody simplywasn’taskingher to do anything. ItoldCodyhe should just ask herout. He texted her, “Hey Ally. Have you been toHawaiian Brian’s? Let meknowif you wantto gothis week?” Withintwo hoursshesaid yes,and they enjoyed a deliciousmeal at Hawaiian Brian’s thenextweek. On a side note,isthere any place on earth that sounds likeit has amorechillvibe thanHawaiian Brian’s?Or for thatmatter, istherea chiller name than “Hawaiian Brian”? “Damnit! Hawaiian Brian juststole mydebitcard and liquidated all mybank accounts!” Ican’tever see someone having to utter that sentence. GRAMMAR/SPEL In any interviews wedid, whenever bad grammar or spelling poppedup, it was animmediate andmajor turnoff. Women seemed to viewit asa clearindicator thata dude was a bozo. Let’s say you are ahandsome, charming stud who really madea great firstimpression. Ifyour first text is “Hey we shudhangout sumtimez,” you mayjust destroyany goodwillyou have built up. On our subredditwe weretolda story abouta man who was dating a spectacular womanbut eventually broke up with her. He said it went downhillonce he texted her asking ifshehad heard about aparty at amutual friend’s house. Her response was “Hoo?” Not “Who,” but “Hoo.” Hekepttrying to force theword “who” into conversationto makesure this beautifulwoman could spella simple three-letter word. Every time, she spelled it “hoo.” He said it ruined everything. (NOTE: We did confirmthat thiswasa womanand notan owl.) ARE WE “HANGING OUT” OR GOING OUT ON A DATE? Another thing that really pisses women off is when dudesask them to “hang out.” The lack of clarity over whetherthe meet-up is even an actualdate frustrates both sexes to noend, butsince it’s usually theguys initiating, this is a clearareawhere men can step itup. “It’sbecoming too common for guys to ask girls to ‘hangout’ rather than directlyasking them on a date,” said one woman. “I’m notsure ifit’s becauseguys are afraidof rejection or because they want to seem casual aboutit, but it can leave one (or both)people unsure aboutwhether ornot they’reeven onadate.” Whenyouare forward in this regard,it can really help you standout from the crowd. A girl from our subreddit recalled meeting aguy ata loud party: “After I left he texted me, ‘Hi [name redacted], this is [firstname, last name], we’re goingon a date.’ His confidence, straightforwardness, and refreshingly gentlemanly approach(vs. skirting around ‘letshang out some time’) madefor an incredible first impression and had a lasting effect.” THE GOOD TEXTS Not allguysarebozos. We also found somereally great texts that gaveme hope for the modern man. While a phone callmay be great, the advantageof texting isthat it can allow a guyor girlto craft agreat, thoughtful messagethat can build attraction. We werealso able tospot somespecifictraitsthese successful texts shared. After speaking with hundredsof menand women, the following three things seemed most important. A FIRM INVITATIONTO SOMETHING SPECIFIC AT A SPECIFICTIME Thereis a monumental difference in thefortunes of the guy who texts a girl, “Hey wuts goinon?” versus “Hey Katie, it was great meeting youon Saturday. If you’re aroundnextweek,I wouldlove totake you to dinneratthat restaurant we weretalking about. Let me know ifyou’refree.” Thesetwo guys could havethe same intentions and feelings intheir hearts, but the girlthey’re texting will never know that. She’sgoing to decide whomto go out with based inparton how she interprets theshortlittle messages that pop up on her phone. The lack of specificity in “Wanna dosomething sometime nextweek?” is a huge negative towomen. The people interviewed overwhelmingly preferred to havea very specific (and ideally interestingand fun) thing presented with afirm invitation. SOME CALLBACK TO THELAST PREVIOUSINPERSON INTERACTION Thisprovesyou were truly engaged whenyoulast hung out andseemedto go a long way with women. Oneguy remembered thata girl was moving andin his text said, “I hope your move went well.” The woman weinterviewed broughtthis up and said it had happened years agobut she stillremembered it. Another gentleman shared astoryon the subreddit where he met agirl at abar andtheytalkedfora while and atsome pointhe broughtup the band Broken Bells andrecommended she check itout. The next morninghereceived atext saying, “I think October is myfavoritesongon the BrokenBellsalbum.” “October” wasalso his favorite songon thealbum. “Notonly didshelisten tomy recommendation,butwe connectedin averystrong way. That was thebeginning ofthe conversation, and we’ve beentalking since,” he said. There was alsothis story froma young woman: “One time,Imet a guy at aparty. When I got home,hetexted me, ‘good night little Audrey.’ That’snot my name. Ifigured he was just toodrunkto remember. After I confronted him about this, he said that he calledme Audreybecause I told him thatIlooked up to Audrey Hepburn. It was actually pretty sweet.” I hope you aren’t holding an ice cream coneagainst your chest, ’cause your heart justwarmed—andyour ice cream just melted. A HUMOROUS TONE Thisis dangerous territory because some dudesgo too farormake a crudejoke thatdoesn’t sit well,but ideally you both sharethe same sense ofhumor and you can put some thought into it and pull it off. And when it’s pulled off well, the attraction to a similarsenseof humor can be quite strong. Here’s astoryfromthe subreddit: “Imet her at abar in town, 2–3 AM after getting hernumberI drunkenlytext her, ‘I’m thattall guy you madeoutwith.’ In the morningI wokeup toa messagethat said, ‘whichtall guy?’ Iwasincredibly impressedwithher sense of humor andwe’restill together 2.5 yearslater.” THIS IS JUST THE BEGINNING . . . Sothisiswhat I’velearned about initialasks,but that’s just the beginning. Evenif you putout a solid ask,you are subject to a mountainof confusion. The person could be busy—oraretheyjust pretendingto be busy? They could give yousilence, likeI got! The adventure is just starting. Since everyone now has an entire socialworld in their phone, they’re carrying aroundadevice that’s loaded with all kinds of back-andforth, drama, and romance. Navigating that worldis interesting, andwhat happens when youexplore someone else’s phoneworld is nuts. AFTER THE ASK . . . Soyou’vefired off a successfultext, or maybe you’ve just received one. If you are oneof thegrowing number ofpeopleevaluating and making plans with potential romantic partners via text messages, thegames are justbeginning. Unlike phone calls, which bind two people in real-time conversations that require at least someshared interpretationof thesituation, communicationby text has no predetermined temporal sequencing and lots of room for ambiguity. Did I just use the phrase “predetermined temporal sequencing”? Fuck yeah, I did. In one ofourfirstfocus groups, a youngwoman, Margaret, told us abouta gentleman she’d metatwork. He soundedcharming and she was definitely interested in him. I asked tosee her text exchanges andimmediately noticed that his name, according to her iPhone,was “Greg DON’T TXT TIL THURSDAY.” Soit was clear why these texts were important. These early communicationscould be the determiningfactor in whethershewould oneday become Margaret DON’T TXTTIL THURSDAYand makea family of little DON’T TXTTIL THURSDAYs oftheir own. Margaretlater explained thatthe last name she gave this guy was not his name but, infact, an extremestep she was taking toavoid sending this dude amessage for afew days,so as not to seem too eagerand to ultimately make herselfmore desirable. The fearof coming off asdesperate orovereager through texting was a common concernin our focus groups, and almost everyone seemedto havesome strategy to avoid this deadly pitfall. There is noofficial guidebookanywhereon textingyet,buta cultural consensus has slowly formed in regard to texts. Some basic rules: •Don’t text back rightaway. You come off likea loser who has nothing going on. •If you write to someone, don’t text them again untilyou hear from them. •Theamount of text you write should be of asimilar lengthto what the otherperson has written to you. •Carrying this through, if your messagesare in blue andthe other person’s messages aregreen, ifthere is a shit ton more blue than green in yourconversation, thisperson doesn’t give ashit about you. •Thepersonwho receives the last message in a convoWINS!6 THE SCIENCE OF WAITING Theone areawherethere was much more debate was the amount oftime one should wait to text back. Depending on the parties involved, it can become a very complicated and admittedlysomewhat silly gamewithmany different viewpoints on howto play— and win. As one woman told us, “There is this desire, for me at least, to have the upper hand. Ihave tohave it. So if I textsomeone,and they wait ten minutes to text me back, I waittwenty. Which sounds stupid, butthe wayIsee it, he and Iboth know theotheris glued to theirphone. Everyoneis. So if you’re gonna play the game, that’s fine,but I’llplay itbetter. Very competitive.” DAMN. Severalpeople subscribed to thenotion of doublingthe response time. (Theywrite back infive minutes, you waitten, etc.) This way you achieve the upper hand andconstantly seem busier and lessavailable thanyour counterpart. Others thought waiting just a few minuteswasenough toprove you had somethingimportant in yourlife besides your phone. Some thoughtyou should double but occasionally throwin aquick response tonot seemso regimented(nothing too long, though!). Some people swore by waiting 1.25times longer. Others arguedthey found three minutes tobe just right. There were also those who weresofed upwiththe gamesthat they thought receiving timely responses freeof games was refreshing and showedconfidence. But doesthis stuffwork? Why do so many peopledo it? Are any of these strategies really liningup with actual psychologicalfindings? Thesenotions about waitingand playing hard to get have been around for ages. According toGreek historian Xenophon, a prostitute once wentto Socrates* for adviceand he told her: “Youmustprompt them by behaving as amodel ofpropriety, bya show of reluctanceto yield,and by holding backuntil theyare as keen as can be;forthen the same gifts aremuchmore to the recipient than when they are offered beforetheyare desired.” Conversely, Socrates knew that people tendto discountand sometimeseven reject the things that are always available. I personally findthe idea thatthis stuff worksvery frustrating. Ifsomeone is really into meand showing interest, shouldn’tIjust appreciatethat andwelcome thoseadvances?Why do we wantwhatwecan’thave and sometimeshave more attraction to peoplewhen theyseem alittledistant or disinterested? THE POWER OF WAITING In recent yearsbehavioral scientistshaveshedsome lightonwhythese waiting techniques canbe powerful. Let’s first look at thenotion thattexting backright away makesyouless appealing. Psychologistshave conducted hundreds ofstudies in which theyreward labanimals in differentways under different conditions. Oneof themost intriguing findings is that “rewarduncertainty”—in which, for instance,animals cannot predictwhether pushingalever will getthem food—candramatically increasetheir interest in gettinga reward,whilealso enhancing their dopamine levels so that they basically feelcoked up.7 Ifa text back from someone is considered a “reward,” consider the fact thatlab animals who get rewarded for pushing alever every time willeventually slow down becausethey know that the next time they wanta reward,it willbe waitingforthem. So basically, if you are the guy orgirlwhotexts back immediately,you aretaken for grantedand ultimately lower yourvalue as areward. As aresult, theperson doesn’tfeel asmuchof an urge to text you or, in the caseof thelab animal, push the lever. Texting is a medium that conditions our minds ina distinctive way,and we expect our exchanges to work differentlywith messages than they didwith phone calls. Beforeeveryone had a cellphone, people could usually wait awhile— up to afew days, even—to call backbefore reaching the point where theother person wouldget concerned. Texting has habituated us to receiving amuch quickerresponse. From our interviews,this time frame varies from person toperson,but itcanbe anywhere fromten minutes to an hourto even immediately, depending on the previous communication. When we don’tget the quickresponse, our mind freaks out. MIT anthropologist NatashaSchüll studies gambling addictionand specifically whathappens to the minds people wh immediat slotmach we metin explained horse race lottery—a gamblers for the ho the weekl machine g lightning                                           CHAPTER3ONLINE DATING Asa publicfigure, I haveneverconsidered doingany online dating. I alwaysfigured therewasa chancesomeone who was a stalker typewould use itas an opportunityto kidnapand murder me. I’m not surehow the scenario wouldgo. Maybe mystalker(probablyan Indiandude) seesmy profile and thinks, Oh, here’s that comedian guy on OkCupid. FINALLY, I have a way to reach out to him and slowly plot his murder. Hesends me amessage pretending to be a woman. I see the profile. “She” likes tacosand Game of Thrones. I’mveryexcited. What I imagine my Indian dude stalker looks like.* We plana date. I’m nervous, but in a fun way. I go to pick “her” up. He, wearinga wig, answersthe door. I immediately realize this is wrong, butheknocks me out beforeI can react. When I wakeup,I’m ina dark basement filledwith dolls,and acreepy songlike “The Chauffeur” by Duran Duran is playing. He then performsa face-off surgery and takesovermy life. I scream in agony and think, I knew this would happen. Okay, this is probably a highlyunlikely scenario,but still, you understandmy hesitation. The truth isI’ve alwaysthought online dating is great. I oncemet someonewho foundhis wife by using Match.comand searching— and this is adirectquote —“Jewish and myzip code.” I joked that that’s how I wouldgo about finding a Wendy’s. “I’dtype Wendy’s and my zipcode andthen I’d go get somenuggets.” It is a little sillythat that’s how this guy foundhis wife, but tome it honestly isa beautifuland fascinating thing that this goofysearch ledto him finding theperson with whom he will sharehislife.* It’san amazing seriesof events: He typesin this phrase,all these random factors andalgorithms come together,this woman’s face comesup, he clicks it, he sends a message, andthen eventually thatwoman becomes the personhe spends the restof hislife with. Now they’remarried and have a kid. Alife. A new life was created because one moment, years ago,hedecided to type “Jewish90046”*and hit “enter.” Connections likethis are now being madeon a massive scale. OkCupidalone is responsible for around forty thousand dates ofnew couples every day. That’s eighty thousand people who are meeting one another for the firsttime daily becauseof this website. Roughly three thousand of themwill end up in long-termrelationships. Two hundred of thosewillget married,and many of them will have kids.1 THE RISE OF ONLINE DATING . . . Online datinghas itsorigins inthe 1960s, with the emergenceof the first computer dating services. Theseservices claimedthat theycould leverage thenew power of computers tohelp the luckless inlove findtheir soulmate ina rational, efficient manner. Theyasked clientsto fill out long questionnaires, the answersto which they would enter into computers thesize of living rooms. (Well, notall the servicesdid this. Apparently one, Project Flame at Indiana University, got students to fill outcomputer punch cards and then, rather thanput them in the computer, thescientists shuffled the deck and created afakedmatch.) The computer wouldchew onthe data and, based on whateverprimitive algorithm had been entered into it, spit out two theoreticallycompatible clients, who would thenbe sent ona date.2 Theseservices hung aroundin variousforms throughoutthe 1980s,but theyneverreally caught on. There were afew good reasonsfor their failure. One was prettysimple: Notmany people hadpersonal computers at home, oreven at work, andthe idea that some strange machinewasgoing to identify theperfect partner was justweird. After thousandsof years of dating and mating without electronic assistance, most people resisted the ideathat the answer to findingtrue love was to consulta bulky IBM. There was alsoanother big reason people didn’t flock to computer matchmakers: The companiesthat ran them couldn’t show thatthey knew whatmadetwo people good romantic partners,and noone had evidencethat thesystems actually worked. Finally, there was astrong stigma attached to computerdating, and most peopleconsidered using machines for this purposea sign ofromantic desperation. Classified ads, not matchmaking machines, were the mediumof choicefor singleslooking for newways to connectduringthe 1980s and early 1990s. The genre was actually invented in the 1690s, and by the eighteenth centurymatrimonial advertising had become a flourishing part of the newspaperbusiness.3Theads really took off after thesexual revolution ofthe 1960s,when menand womenalike were emboldenedto seek new ways tomeet people. Decades beforeCraigslist,the “Personals” sectionsof daily and, especially, weekly newspaperswere full of action,particularlyin the “thin markets” such as among LGBTfolks and middle-aged (usuallydivorced) and older straightpeople. Theadswere very brief, generally under fifty words, and would lead with a bold, all-caps headingthat would attemptto grab people’s attention,anything from STRAWBERRY BLONDE to LONELY GUY! to SURPRISE ME oreven just MY NAME IS WILLIE! Then thepersonwould quicklydescribe themselves and what they werelooking for orin searchof (ISO). In orderto save space,people used abbreviations, like SWM (single white male), SJF (single Jewish female), SBPM (single black professionalmale), and,of course,DASP (divorced Asiansaxophoneplayer.) Youwould usuallyget a certain amount ofspacefor freeand then wouldhave to pay formore space. For instance,in the L.A. Times you gotfour linesforfreeand thenpaid eightdollars per lineafterward. Herearesome ads from the Beaver County Times in December1994,just months beforethe first online dating site emerged: After theadswere placed, interested parties wouldcallatoll-based900 number andleave amessage in that person’smailbox. The cost of leaving these messages hovered around $1.75 perminute, and the average call lastedabout three minutes. You wouldlisten to the person’s outgoing messageand thenleave your voicemail, and youeven had the option to listen and rerecord ifyou wanted. The person who placed the ad wouldgo through the messages and contact those people they wereinterested in. With no photosand so little informationto gooffof, finding love through personals couldbea frustrating experience. That said, occasionally newspaper personals reallydid leadto loveconnections. Asit happens, Eric’sdad,Ed, was an activeuser of classified newspaperpersonal ads in Chicago during the1980s and early 1990s,and he remembers hisexperiences well. Ed published his ads in the Chicago Reader, the local alternative weekly. Fortunately for us, he saved the last, most successful one he everposted: SEEKING ADVENTURE?? DivorcedJewishmale,49, enjoys sailing,hiking, biking, camping,travel,art, music, FrenchandSpanish. Seeking a womanwho’slooking fora long-term relationship and whosharessome ofthese interests. Bebold—call right now!Chicago ReaderBox XXXXX. There’sa lot in this ad thatwilllookfamiliarto today’sonline daters. Ed giveshis status, religion, age, and personal interests. We get asensethat he’spretty cosmopolitan,and there’s even a promise ofadventure if wedare tobebold. (Nice move, Ed!) Thead abovegenerated responses from about thirty-five women, he recalls. Those who responded had to call the designated900numberand typein his mailbox code. When theydid, they heard his personalgreeting, which he reconstructedfor us: Hello! If you’re seeking adventure and fun, you’ve come to the right ad! My name is Ed. I’m a forty-nine-year-old divorced Jewish man with two adult children. I have my own house in Lincoln Park and I’ve owned my own advertising and public relations company since 1969. I’m a longtime recreational sailor and I have a boat in Monroe Harbor. I also enjoy bike riding, hiking, running, camping, and photography. I graduated from the University of Michigan with an English degree, and after graduating from college I worked for six months, saved all my earnings, and attended the Sorbonne College. During the summer vacation I hitchhiked ten thousand miles through Europe and parts of the Middle East. Obviously, world travel is a big interest of mine! I’m active in two French-language groups and I also speak Spanish. If I’ve caught your attention and you’d like to talk to me on the phone, please respond to this message and leave a number where I can reach you. I look forward to hearing from you soon! Damn,Edsoundspretty badass inthis greeting. Dude ownsaboat andisactive in notone but two Frenchlanguagegroups. Edtoldus thathe’dcall in tocheck the messages aboutonce a week —afar cry fromtoday’s online daters, many ofwhom check formatcheseveryfew hours or even getinstant push notifications on theirphone. “I listened toeach of them severaltimes, making notes about keyitems of information. ThenI calledthe womenwho sounded most interesting, andthat time,one really stood out.” Hello, my name is Anne and I really like your Reader ad as well as your voice introduction when I called you just now. I’m a divorced thirty-seven-year-old woman with no children, and yes—I am seeking adventure! I enjoy many of the activities you listed. I lived in Colombia and in Peru for a short time, so I speak Spanish, as you do. If you’d like to meet in person, please call me. I hope you do! Edmadethe call and invitedAnneto meetfor coffee. Often,he explainedto us,these first encounters went badly, because with newspaperadsyouhad no idea what theotherperson lookedlike, and you were basically goingoff howthey soundedon the phone. But he and Anne had agood vibe rightaway,and things quicklytook off. They dated for six years before he proposed to her ona sailing trip byhoistinga self-made sail thatsaid, “Dear Annie, I loveyou—Willyou marry me?” She said yes, andbefore long they’dsailed off to California tostarta newlife together. Now, the idea ofmeeting through a newspaper personals admakes for a pretty great story, but for many yearsAnnenevertold it. She’s ahigh-achieving professionalwitha fancy degree froman elite university and astraitlaced family, and she knew there was astigma attached to couples who metthrough newspaperads. Anne made up a decoy story about her and Ed’smeeting beinga setup, for theinevitable moments when people asked how theyhad met. Her own friendsand family didn’t know thetruth untilher wedding day, when she confessed during her toast, at which pointher family disowned her forbeingsuch a loser. Okay, thatdidn’t happen, butwouldn’tthat havebeen nuts? A fewyears beforeEd and Anne found love through anewspaper ad, some entrepreneurs tried to bring cutting-edge technologyto matchmaking byintroducing video datingservices, which gavesingles a more dynamic sense oftheirprospective partners, including amuchneeded visual component. With video dating, someone likeEd or Anne wouldgo to a smallstudio,sit before a smallcrew, andspend a few minutesintroducing themselves on camera. Every so often, they’dget aVHS cassette with short videos of prospects inthe mail,and if theylikedsomeone they saw, theycould tryto arrangea date. Video dating never really caught on, but ifyou do some YouTube searching,youcan observe some fantastic archivedfootage. Oneguy, Mike, ledwiththis amazing notice: In additionto that, most ofthe clips Iwatched contained guyssetting themselves up asenjoying “havingfun” and looking for “someone tohave fun with.” They also shared a little bit about themselves. “Ilike pizza,” said one gentleman. “No fatties, noalcoholics,” proclaimedanother. “I’m currently cleaning up toxic waste” is how oneman describedhisprofessional life, while another described himselfas “an executive by day, a wild manby night,” and a thirdproclaimed, “I’m interestedin all aspects of data processing.” One gentleman declared no “DonnaJuanitas,” which soundedlike a horrifying racialsluragainstHispanic women. However,I didsome Internet research andfound outit was actually thefemale equivalent ofa Don Juan. Basically,hedidn’twanta womanwho was sleeping around. Thatsaid,if that’s the goal, shouldn’t the termbe “Donna Juan” insteadof “Donna Juanita”? Where does the “Juanita” come from? Why does her last name change? Seems like the person who cameup with this term is under theimpression thatlastnames inSpanish havegender-specific conjugations. So a man named Jorge Lopez would be married to a womannamed AnaLopezita? MySpanish is horrible, but even Iknow that makesno sense. Okay, this was quite atangent—look for myother book, Donna Juan: The Etymology of Racial Slurs, sometime in 2023.* After each clip,the suitor’sstatswould be flashed onthe screen, like this: In a way, I’mkind of bummed video datingdied out, because the clipsI explored werereally great. Peepthe dude above. One of his interests is “adventure”! Thefailure of video dating did not scare off the entrepreneurs who recognized how anothernew technology, the Internet, might revolutionize matchmaking. And in themid-1990s, when personalcomputersand modemsthat connected users to theInternetwere becoming more popular, online dating began to takeoff. Match.com launched in 1995, and itwasn’t just an updatedversion ofcomputer dating services; ithad one crucial innovation: Instead of matching upclients with an algorithm,Match.com let its clientsselect one another,in realtime. Mostpeoplewere skeptical thatthe service wouldchange anything. But notGaryKremen, who founded thecompany and served as itsfirstCEO. During his firstbig television interview, Kremenworea tie-dyed shirt,saton abrightly coloredbeanbag chair,and boldlytoldthe camera: “Match .com will bringmore loveto the planetthan anything since Jesus Christ.”4 But firstitrequired some tinkering. InitiallyMatch.com was hampered bythe same stigma thathad kept people away from previous computer dating services. During the Internet boomof thelate 1990s, though, people’s relationshipto computers and online culture changed dramatically, and more and more people were getting comfortable using computers for basic tasks. Over time,email,chat rooms, and ultimately social media would requirepeople to develop online personas. And theidea ofusinga computerto find dates became completely acceptable. By 2005 Match.comhad registered fortymillion people. However, once it was clearthat there was amarket for onlinedating services, competing companies sprang up everywhere,seekingout new niches andalso trying to chipaway at Match .com’s client base. Each new site had its own distinctive branding —eHarmony was for people looking for serious relationships, Nerve was for hipsters, JDate for Jewish folks, and so forth. But most sites shared a basic template: They presenteda vastcatalogof single people andoffereda quasiscientificmethod of filteringthrough the options to findthe people most likely to match. Whetherthese algorithmswere more effectivethan thealgorithms ofthe computer dating servicesis a matterof some controversy,but as computers becamedazzlingly fast and sophisticated, people seemed more inclined to trust their matchmaking advice. ONLINE DATING TODAY Ialways knew online dating was popular,but until recentlyI hadno idea just how massiveaforce itisin today’s search fora romantic partner. According toa study by the University of Chicago psychologistJohn Cacioppo (not tobeconfused with John Cacio e Pepe,a fat Italian guy who lovespastawith pecorino andblack pepper), between 2005 and 2012 more than one third ofcoupleswho gotmarriedin theUnited Statesmet through an online dating site. Onlinedating was the single biggestway people mettheirspouses. Bigger thanwork, friends, and school combined.5 Cacioppo’s findings are so shockingthatmany punditsquestionedtheir validity,or else argued that the researchers were biased because they werefundedby an onlinedating company. Butthe truth is that the findings are largely consistent with thoseof Stanford University sociologist Michael Rosenfeld, who has done more than anyone to document therise ofInternet dating and the decline of just about every other way of connecting. His survey, “How Couples Meetand Stay Together,” is anationally representativestudyof four thousand Americans, 75 percent married or in a romantic relationship and 25 percent single. It askedadults ofallages howthey met their romantic partners,and since someof therespondents were older, the surveyallowsus to seehow thingsvaried among differentperiods.6 It’sespecially instructive to compare things from 1940 to 1990, right before therise ofonline dating, andthen againfromthe 1990s until today. First let’slook at the difference between 1940and 1990—just before online dating arrived. In 1940the most common wayto meeta romantic partner was through the family, and 21 percent metthemthrough friends. About12 percent met through church or in the neighborhood,and roughly the sameportion metin abar orrestaurantor at work. Just ahandful, about5percent, metin college,forthe simple reason thatnot many people had access to higher education. Thingswere different in 1990. The familyhad become afar less influential matchmaker, pairing uponly 15 percentof singles, as did the church, whichhad plummetedto 7 percent. The most popular route to romancewasthrough friends, which is how nearly 40 percent of all couples met. Theportion ofpeople who metin bars had also increased, going up to 20 percent. Meeting someonein college hadgone up to 10 percent, while meetingin the neighborhood was justa bit lesscommon thanit had been in 1940. Another popular way partnersfound eachother in 1990 was when a manwould yellsomething to theeffectof “Hey, girl, comeback here with thatfinebuttthat’s in them fly-ass acid-washed jeans andlet me takeyouto a Spin Doctors/Better Than Ezra concert.” The woman, flattered by theattentionand the opportunity to see oneof the preeminent musical acts ofthe era, would quickly oblige. This is how roughly 6 percent of couples formed. To be clear, thisisjust a guess on my part andhasnothingto do with Mr. Rosenfeld’s research. Theadvent ofonline dating sites has transformed the way we begin romantic relationships. In 2000, amere five years after Match .com was invented, 10 percent of all people inrelationships had mettheirpartners on the Internet,and by2010 nearly 25 percenthad. No otherway ofestablishinga romantic connection has ever increased so far, so fast.7 In 2010only college and bars remained roughly as important as they hadbeen in 1995. Incontrast,the portion ofpeoplewhomet through friendshad dropped precipitously, from40 percent to28 percent, and meetingthrough thefamily, work, orthe neighborhood becameeven less common, each around 10 percentor wellbelow. And churches wentthe wayof theSpin Doctorsand Better Than Ezra,all buttotally out ofthe game. Nowonline datingis almost a prerequisitefora modern single. Asof this writing, 38 percentof Americans whodescribe themselves as “single and looking” haveused an online dating site.8 ONLINE DATING AND THIN MARKETS Internet dating has changed the game even more dramatically inwhat Rosenfeldcalls “thin markets,” mostnotably peopleinterested insamesex relationships, but increasingly older and middle-aged straightpeople too. Thereason is pretty obvious: The smaller thepool ofpotentialromantic partners, thelower the odds offinding romanceface-toface, whetherthrough friends, in schools, orin public places. Sure, thereare boominggay neighborhoods in some cities, but the people who liveand hang outthere seea lot ofone another. After awhilethose who aresingle havemoved through their optionsand they’re looking for something new. That’s onereason why today meetingin barsor in the neighborhood is farless common amongLGBT couples thanit used tobe,and why nearly 70percent of LGBTcouples meetonline. (BLT couples—bacon, lettuce,and tomatocouples— are inanimate objects andare notengagingin romantic pursuits.) Back to LGBT folks: Rosenfeld’s research shows thatonline dating is “dramaticallymore common amongsame-sexcouples than any way of meeting has ever been for heterosexual or same-sex couples in the past.” (Emphasis ours.)And recent trends suggest thatas more oldpeople go online, Internet dating will start to dominate their worldtoo. SOCIAL STIGMA Therecan still beasocial stigma withonline dating sites, and people are sometimes afraid to admit that’s how theymettheir partner. Their fear is that using an onlinesitemeans theywere somehow not attractiveor desirableenough to meet people through traditionalmeans, butin recent years this concern seems to bedeclining. Occasionally we interviewed people who feltembarrassed thatthey had mettheirmates online and crafted “decoy stories” for their friends and family. Ihopethe prevalence ofonline dating that we’re reportinghere will destroy the fears any readershave about it not being accepted. No matter whatyour friends and family say when they hearyou met yourspecial person througha website, you haveplenty ofcompany in finding yourmate through these means. If you are still uneasyabout it, though, and you need help crafting a decoy story,I can suggest a fewforyouto try: It was a rainy Sunday winter afternoon and I decided to go the movies. Everything was sold out except for a special Christmas screening of the Arnold Schwarzenegger film Jingle All the Way. I looked over and I saw one other person in the theater. It was Janine. I sat next to her and we started chatting. By the time Arnold had finally secured a “Turbo Man” doll for his son, Jamie, we had already boned it out TWICE. I was in the hallway of my apartment building throwing out a bag of trash when a small puppy walked up to me. We looked at each other, and then I turned around. He then tapped me with his paw. I turned around to face him. The puppy spoke, in a voice that sounded old and raspy, with a strong Southern accent not unlike the one Kevin Spacey does in House of Cards, and said, “Katherine . . . Katherine, listen to me . . .You mustgo and find Daniel Reese. He will be your husband.” I never saw the puppy again and I never met a Daniel Reese, but that night I met Dave at a bar downtown. I was attending a boxing match in Atlantic City, when suddenly gunshots rang out and the secretary of defense, whom I was assigned to protect, was killed. Of course, I ordered the arena to be locked down and then, using my expert detective skills, determined that the mastermind of the whole plan was none other than my own partner, Kevin Dunne. That bastard. After fighting one of the boxers myself, I was able to escape just as Hurricane Jezebel hit the boardwalk. Yup, you know what that means. Tidal wave. Eventually Dunne shot himself in front of the TV cameras once he realized his plan had failed, and that’s where I met Cindy. NOTE: Use this storyonlyif you’re sure your audience has not seen theNicolasCage movie Snake Eyes. It’seasyto seewhy online datinghastakenoffso much. It provides you a seemingly endless supply of people who are single and looking todate. You have the tools to filterand find exactly whatyouare looking for. You don’tneed athird party, likea friend orcoworker,to facilitateanintro. Thesites are onall the time andyou can engage whenever and wherever you want. Let’s say you’re agirl who wantsa twenty-eightyear-old man who’s five foot ten, has brown hair, lives in Brooklyn, is a memberof the Baha’i faith, and loves the music ofNaughty by Nature. Before onlinedating,this wouldhave beena fruitless quest, but now,atany time of the day,no matter where you are, youare justa few screens away from sendinga message to yourveryspecific, very odd dream man. But,of course,therearedownsides with online dating as well. THE PROBLEMS WITH ONLINE DATING Sofar I’ve paintedapretty nicepicture of millionsof peoplefindinglovewith a fewclicks. Intheory, online dating should be abig improvementovertraditional methodsof meeting people. It’s infinitelylarger,more efficient,more precise, and alwaysreadily available. Of the successful relationships in the Rosenfeld study,74 percent of the people started astotalstrangers,meaning had itnotbeen for online dating, they would never have met. However, despite the undeniable success thatthe numbers above represent, the research I’ve done andread makesit clear that the new dating technology has created its own new set of problems. To get a realsense of the worldof onlinedating,we had to look beyondthe numbers. So weset out to try to understandthe real-life experiencespeoplewere havingas onlinedaters. One of the most enlightening ways wefound to learn about onlinedating was when,in amovethatI stillcan’tbelievewewere able topulloff,Ericand I hookedup a computer toa projector and asked young singlesto log on totheir accounts to show us what it was really liketo be an online dater. They showed us their inboxes and whatthey would generally do uponlogging in. Thefirst timewe didthis, at alive show in Los Angeles, an attractivewoman pulled up her OkCupid account and let meproject it onto a large screenthat everyone in the housecould see. She was receiving fiftynew messages aday andher inbox was cloggedwithliterally hundreds ofunread solicitations. As she scrolled and scrolled through message after message, theguys inthe audience lookedon inhorror. They couldn’tbelievethe sheervolume of it all. The womansaidshefeltbad that alot of the messageswould probably just be deleted because she would never havetime torespond tothem all. Themenin the audience collectively letout a pained groan. Throughout all our interviews,this was a consistentfinding: Inonline dating women get a tonmore attention thanmen. In hisbook Dataclysm, OkCupid founder Christian Rudderillustrates thisstark difference inattentionwith the following graphof user data from OkCupid. This isa chart of messages received perday plottedagainst attractiveness based onuser ratings. Even a guyatthe highest end of attractiveness barely receivesthe number of messages almostall women get. But that doesn’tmean thatmen end up inthe online equivalent ofstanding alone in thecorner of the bar. Online there areno lonely corners. Everywhere is filled with people looking to connect. A guy whomay have had very little luckin thebar scene can haveaninbox filled with messages. The number ofmessages maynotbeas high relativeto thatof the most attractivewomen onthe sites,butrelative to the attention they’dget in more traditionalsocial environments, it’shuge. Basically,everybozo can now be astud. TakeDerek, a regular userof OkCupid who livesin NewYork. What I’mabout to say is going tosound very mean, but Derek is apretty boring white guy. Medium height, thinningbrown hair, nicely dressed and personable,butnothing immediately magneticor charming. He isn’t unattractive, but he wouldn’t necessarily turnheads if he walked into a baror party. At our focus group on online datingin Manhattan, Derek goton OkCupid and let us watchas he went through his options. These were womenwhom OkCupid had selectedas potential matches for him based on his profile and the site’s algorithm. The first womanheclicked on was very beautiful, with a witty profile page, a good job, and lots ofshared interests, including a love ofsports. After lookingitoverfor a minuteor so, Derek said: “Well, she looks okay. I’m justgonnakeep looking fora while.” I asked what was wrong, and hereplied, “Shelikes the Red Sox.” I was completely shocked. I couldn’t believe how quicklyhejust moved on. Imagine the Derek of twenty years ago, finding out thatthis beautiful, charming womanwantedto date him. If she was at abar andsmiled at him,Derekof 1993would havemelted. Hewouldn’t havewalkedup andsaid, “Oh, wait,you like the Red Sox?!No thank you!” and put his hand in her face and turnedaway. But Derek of 2013 justclickedan X on a Web browser taband deleted herwithoutthinking twice, likea J.Crewsweatshirt that didn’t liveup to his expectations upon seeing a larger picture. Derek didn’tgo for the nextone either, despite the factthat the woman was comparablyattractive. For ten orfifteen minutesDerek flipped his wayaround the site without showing even a hint ofenthusiasmforany of the numerousextremely compellingwomen who were there looking for romance, until finally he settled on one and typedout a simple message, leavingthe others to die inhis browserhistory. Now, letme say thatI liked Derek. He was anice person andI feelhorrible about calling hima boring white guy. My point is that he didnotstrikeme as a stud. Butwow, when you watched him comb throughthose profiles,hehad a stud mentality. I couldn’thelp thinking that he andwho knows how many other people likehimare doinga lotbetterwithonline dating thanthey would in other forums. Derekand allonline daters, men andwomen, are being presentedwithmore romantic possibilities than everbefore, and itis clearly changing their whole approachto finding a potential mate. There was another amazing example of this phenomenon onour subreddit. One young man wrote into say how shocked he was to see how an attractivefemale friendof his fared onTinder. “She hada 95% match rate,” hereported. “Close to150matchesin 20 minutes. She is insanely attractivein person but I was notexpectingthat. Shecould get as many matches in one hour as I could in4months.” Inpart, thisguyis complaining about the problems ofbeing aman in the world ofonline dating: There’slots of competition for attractivewomen, and womenget much higherhit rates than men. Granted. But in themidst of this he also said somethingincredible: “I gotapproximately 350 matches in 5 months.” That’s seventy people a month. Twenty years ago,if you met aguywho saidhe’dmet seventy womenwho’d expressed interestin him in the pastmonth, you’d assume he was quite a stud. Today he can be anyguywitha smartphoneand athumbto swiperight. EXHAUSTION: ARPAN VERSUS DINESH Derekand alltheother peoplelikehim have vastly increasedtheirdating options, butat what price? I learned allaboutthe toll online datingcan take when I mettwo very different and interesting men in a focus groupin Los Angeles. It was a Saturday morningand we were conductingourinterviewsin an officebuilding on thewest side. I walked infromthe parking garage andgot into the elevator,and I saw two Indiandudes. Onewas Arpan. The other was Dinesh. At firstIwasscared:Was one ofthese guysmy Indian stalker? Nah, they seemed cool. IfIhad toguess who had the betterdating lifebased juston our initial hellos, I wouldhave easilysaid Arpan. He was dressed alittlemore fashionably, he had a confidence andcharm to him, and heseemed comfortable with all thesestrangers. Dinesh was abit shy, not as hipin his dress, and justnot asjovial. When the focus groupstarted, though, a differentpicture emerged. We began the discussion by just asking whatpeople werelookingfor. Arpan slouched downin his seat and told his story. “I’m Arpan. I’mtwentynineand I live in downtown L.A.,” he began. “I’m looking for something serious. I’ve been single fora few years. And youknow,atthe initial stages, especially when I was alittleyounger,like, twentysix, it was cool. There are so many options!” Fora while havingeasyaccess to a world ofsinglewomen who lived nearby was exciting,and he’d spendhours online checking outprofilesor casually flirting. He went out alot too, and gradually honed his technique. Arpan then describedhis descentintodarkness. Hesaid thatinitiallyhewould spend a lotof time crafting enticing personalnotes towomen,his logic being thatwomen receive so many messages thathehad todo something to stand outfromthe crowd in their inboxes. Eventually, though,the returnon investment was too lowto justifyall thattime and energy. He wouldspendall this time beingthoughtful but thenfeltlike the women wouldjust dismiss him based on looks or someother variable. Andeven ifthe girl responded,it wasn’t always easy. “Then finallyshe responds. You’re like, Yay! A euphoric moment,” he said. Then he’d be drawnintoa back-and-forth exchangewith this personthatcouldlast quite awhileand then,as he describedit, “eitherit fades out, or you meetup with them and it’s horrible, andyoujust wastedall thattime.” This all started takinga toll on Arpanand he became adifferent person. He decided he was goingto stopwiththe thoughtful messagesbecause it justwasn’t worththe time. He started mass mailing what he admittedlydescribed as “douchebag” messages. “I’m so jaded and so tired ofit thatIdon’tactually take thetimeanymore. Iwill send a stupid message like ‘Hey,you’repretty. Wantto grab adrink?’ Literally mass message, like,twenty,thirty people becauseI’m so tired. They’re going to base [their response]on looks anyway.” The lack of thoughtfulness in his messagesmade things easier and more effective. “There’sno work,” hesaid. “And I getmoreresponse rate, which is so weird.” Weird, yes,but alsotrue. In Dataclysm, Christian Rudderused actualuser data fromOkCupid to show that writing a standard message and then copying andpasting it toinitiate conversations is 75 percentas effective as writing something more original. Since it’s alsoway lessdemanding, Ruddersays that “in terms ofeffort-into results-outitalways wins.”9 SoArpan didgamethe systemto his advantage a little,buthedidn’tjust standardize his initial messages;healso developed atemplate for hisdates. When he started online dating he wouldoften take women outto dinner, but at a certain point hedecidedthis was a “rookiemistake.” If he didn’t hititoff with this person, he was in for the long haul, stuck in a seemingly endlessdinner, so he decided toswitchto drinks. He alsofelt that investing time in picking a fun place togo was too much effort considering that most ofthe dates ended upbeinga bust, so he narrowedhis date spots to afew barsthat were walkingdistancefromhis apartment. So: just drinks,minimal effort on hispart, and you haveto travel to him. Ladies, are you gettingsexually excited justreading this?! We asked him where he took his lasttwo dates, both ofwhom he found through online sites. “Volcano, five blocks awayfrom my house.” And the other? “Lucky Strike Lanes, sixblocksaway from myhouse.” Any potential ladies that got excited about a bowling datequickly would havetheirdreamscrushed, though. According to Arpan, “It’s actually bowling, but there’s a lounge/bararea,soI don’tdo thebowling.” Ouch. Quite abait and switch. “Hey! Let’s gobowling! Just kidding, let’s just get a drink at the lounge.” On that note, itis fairly common knowledgethat nothing gets a girl more turnedon than abowling lounge. Between watching fat guystossing bowling balls and the dulcet tonesof The Simpsons arcade game, I can’t imaginethose encounters notending ina marathon boning session. “Dating is tiring,without adoubt,” Arpan told us. “It’s alot of work. And youknow, now I’m so jaded and, like,so tired ofit thatIdon’tactually take thetimeanymore. I’mat the pointwhereit’s just like, ‘Find me somebody! Make it happen!’” But as far asI could tell, histechniques werenot workingout. Arpan, who at first glancecomes offas a vibrant, confident guy, has been so beatendown bydating that the very mention of the topic leads him toslouchdown and spintaleslike a weary war veteran. The rigors of the online datingworld transformed thisonce-excited youngsingleman into a sad lugwhoseidea ofa dateis to notbowl at abowlingalley thathecan get home from as quicklyas possible. Others in our focus groupscommiserated over the factthat sorting through this new sea ofoptions available through online dating was almost becoming a second job. The word “exhausting” came up in every discussion we had, andafterhearing people’sexperiences, it made sense. Allthe work that went into finding evenone date— readingthrough messages, finding a messageyou like, clickingthe profile,sorting through theprofile,and then, after all that,STILLhaving to engage in a series of backand-forths to gauge rapport and then plan areal-world meet-up—was taking itstoll. Some hadeven reached a breaking point. Priya, twenty-seven, said she’d recently deleted herTinderand OkCupid accounts. “It just takes too long to get to just the firstdate. And Ifeel like it’sway more effective utilizing yoursocial groups,” she said. “It’s like Iwould rather put myselfin those socialsituations than get exhausted.” For Priya, as for so many ofthe online daters we met in differentcities,the process had morphed fromsomething fun and exciting into a new source ofstressand dread. Now, what about Dinesh, the otherIndian guy? Dinesh had a completely differentapproach todating. “I’m not onany datingsites,” he announced toourgroup thatmorning, looking a bit perplexed bythe conversation. “Whatwasthe last first date you went on?” Iasked. “I meta girlatchurch and wewent toa movie just recently,” he said. Theway he saidit was so confident and badass. Compared with what Arpan had just said, Dinesh’s “church and amovie” soundedlike “motorcycle race andsome sportfucking.” “Whataboutthe last girl beforethat who you met?” I continued. “I mether at a volunteer thing,” Dinesh replied. Theguys in the room seemedmesmerizedby the fantasy ofdating a beautiful girl who also doesheartfelt charitywork. Before that, hereported, he’d meta girlata holiday party. “I havea bunchof really good groups offriends, kind ofacross L.A., so I meet tonsof people.” Thekey, Dinesh said, is to have friends who hang out in different groupsin differentplaces,and to mix up the nights so thatyou’re spending sometime with all ofthem. Whether it’sin church, with volunteer groups, at officeparties, or on asportsfield,it’s always a place where peoplemeet organically. “There’sa lot ofcool stuff goingon inL.A. at all times,” heexplained. “I think it’sfunand interesting to meetnew people, and if I meetpeoplein person, they’remore willing to open up theirschedules. I am too. I’m morewillingto,like, go to worksuperearlyand then be home by, like,fiveor six to make something happen.” He lookedoverto consider Arpan and thenturned back to us. “And no, I’mnot exhausted.” Fortunately, Arpan at this point was so slumpedin his chair thatit blockedhisears and hedidn’t even hear this. Dinesh had a Zen vibeto him thatwasn’tmatched by anyone else inthe room. While the othersingles assembled that morning seemedjaded and frustrated, Dinesh seemedmore comfortable andatease with dating. Was it becausehe avoidedonline dating? Or was it that thosewho were dating onlinewere actually pretty bad at it? After several lengthy conversations withexperts, I wouldguessthe latter was a significant factor. MOST PEOPLE STINK AT ONLINE DATING Online datingislike a second jobthat requires knowledge andskills that very few ofus have. In fact, most ofus have no clue what we’re doing. One reasonis thatpeopledon’talways know what they’re looking for in a soulmate, unlike when they’repicking something easier, like laundry detergent (big upsto Tide Mountain Spring—who doesn’twant their clothes to smelllike a fresh mountain spring?!). While we maythink we know what we want,we’re often wrong. According to Dan Slater’s history ofonline dating, Love in the Time of Algorithms, thefirstonline dating services tried tofind matches for clients based almost exclusively onwhat clientssaid theywanted. The client would usuallyfillouta survey indicatingcertain traits theywere looking forin apartner. For example,if a mansaid he was looking for a tall, blondwoman with no kidsand a college degree,the company showed him everyonewhofitthis description. Butpretty soon online datingcompanies realized thatthis wasn’t working. In2008 Match.com hired AmarnathThombre as its new “chiefof algorithms.” Thombresetabout figuring outwhya lot ofcouplesthat Match.com’salgorithmsaid werea perfectfitoftendidn’t makeit past thefirstdate. When he began digging into the data, hediscovered something surprising: The kind ofpartnerpeoplesaid theywere lookingfordidn’t match up withthe kind of partnertheywere actually interestedin. Thombrediscoveredthis by simply analyzing the discrepancy between the characteristics people said theywanted in a romantic partner(age, religion, hair color, and the like) and the characteristics ofthe people whomthey actuallycontacted on the dating site. “We began to see how frequentlypeople break their own rules,” he told Slater. “When you watch their browsing habits—their actualbehavioron thesite— you seethemgo way outside ofwhat they say they want.”10 WhenI was writing stand-up about onlinedating, I filledout theforms for dummy accounts onseveral dating sites just to geta sense ofthe questionsand whatthe processwaslike. The person I describedthat Iwantedto find was a little younger than me, small,withdarkhair. The person I’mcurrently dating, whomImet throughfriends, is twoyears older, about my height—OKAY, SLIGHTLY TALLER—and blond. She wouldn’thave made it through thefilters I placed in myonline datingprofile. A bigpartof online dating is spent on this process, though—settingyour filters, sorting through many profiles,and goingthrough a mandatory “checklist” of whatyouthink you are looking for. People takethese parameters very seriously. They declare thattheir mate “must lovedogs” or thattheir mate “mustlove thefilm Must Love Dogs,” whichstars DianeLaneas a newly divorced womanwho’s encouraged byher friend to startanonline datingprofile thatstatesher dates “must lovedogs.” (Shout-out to the Must Love Dogs Wikipedia pageforhelping merecallthe plot.) But doesall the effort put into sortingprofileshelp? Despiteall the nuanced informationthat peopleput up on their profiles,the factor thatpeoplerelyon most when preselecting adate is looks. Based onthe data hehas reviewed, Rudder told us that he estimates thatphotos drive 90 percentof theactionin online dating. PROFILE PHOTOS: WHY YOU NEED TO GO SPELUNKING WITH A PUPPY ASAP If 90percent ofyour fate as anonlinedater depends on the photos you pick, this is animportantdecision. So whatworks? Rudder examined which kinds of images provedmostand least successful on thedating site OkCupid,and he made some surprisingdiscoveries.11 First let’sexamine what works for women. Most women(56percent) choose to go with astraightforward smilingpic. But the9percent who optto go with a more “flirtingto the camera” vibe are slightly more successful. See theexamples below: Now, those results are notverysurprising, but what’s weird is that men actually fare better when they are not smilingand are looking away fromthe camera. Whereaswomen did worse whentheydidn’tmake eye contact, for guys, looking away was muchmore effective. This seemsreally counterintuitive. Theseare good photos?Whatarethey looking at? The second thing Rudder discovered isthat, for women, themosteffective photoangle is a straightforward “selfie,” shot down from ahigh anglewith aslightly coy look. Whenscanning through profiles,wesawa trendof people picking certain templates fortheirphotos— hanging with friends drinking, outdoorsnear a mountain, etc. Rudder’sdata showsthat for women,the high-angleselfie is byfar the most effective. Second isin bed, followed by outdoor and travel photos. Atthe lower end, theones thatareleast effectiveare women drinking alcoholor posing with an animal. Oddly enough,for men the most effective photos are ones with animals, followed by showing off muscles (sixpacks, etc.), and then photos showingthem doing something interesting. Outdoor, drinking,and travel photos were the least effectivephoto types. Most intriguingto me, though,waswhenRudder lookedatthe data of what photos ledto thebest conversations. Whereas “cleavage” shots of women got49 percentmorenew contacts permonth than average,the images that resulted inthe most conversationshowedpeople doinginteresting things. Sometimes facesdidn’teven need to appear. Aguygiving athumbs-upwhilescuba diving. Awoman standing in abarren desert. Awoman playingaguitar. Thesephotos revealed somethingdeeper about their interests or their lives and led tomore meaningful interactions. OPTIMAL PROFILE PHOTOS Sobased onthesedata, the answers are clear: If you are a woman, takeahighangle selfie,with cleavage, while you’re underwater nearsomeburiedtreasure. If you area guy, take a shotof yourself holding your puppywhileboth of you are spelunking. MESSAGING STRATEGY Solet’ssay the person is intrigued byyour photos. Now what?Themessages begin. As with textmessages, there are all sorts ofstrategies people use when communicatingon a dating site. Unlike with SMStexts, though,withthese messages we actually have data onwhat works. According toRudder, the messages that getthebest response rateare between fortyand sixty characters. He also learnedsomething by analyzing howlong people spenton themessages. The ones that received thehighest response ratetook only aroundtwominutes to compose. If youoverthink it and spend too much time writing, the response rate goes down. Whataboutthe Arpan strategy of copying and pasting? The problemwith Arpan’smessage is that it’s clearly a copy-and-paste messagewithlittlethought and no personaltouch. What really seems tobeeffective is taking thetimeto compose a messagethat seems genuine and blasting it out en masse. Here’s amessage that one guy blastedoutto forty-two people: I’m a smoker too. I picked it up when backpacking in may. It used to be a drinking thing but now I wake up and fuck, I want a cigarette. I sometimes wish that I worked in a Mad Men office. Have you seen the Le Corbusier exhibit at MoMA? It sounds pretty interesting. I just saw a Frank Gehry (sp?) display last week in Montreal, and how he used computer modelling to design a crazy house in Ohio. At first glance it’sa bit random,because there are so many referencesto so many differentinterests. But when you take itallin,it’s clear thatthe guy was looking for a girl who smoked and was into art, andhis generic message was specific enoughto resonate with at least five of the women whoread it, because that’s how many replied. ALGORITHMS What about the algorithms thatare supposed to help you find your soul mate? They’re nodoubt usefulfor helpingonline daters find their wayintoa poolof potentiallycompatible partners, and for thatreason theycan be useful. But even the designerswhodo the math thatdrivesthem acknowledge that they’refar fromperfect. In 2012a team offive psychologyprofessors, ledby Eli FinkelatNorthwestern University, published a paper in Psychological Science in the Public Interest arguing thatno algorithm can predict in advance whether two people will makeagood couple. “No compelling evidence supports matching sites’ claims that mathematicalalgorithms work,” they wrote. Thetask the sites have setoutfor themselves—to pickout mates who areuniquely compatible—is, they conclude, “virtually impossible.”12 Muchof onlinedating, Finkeland company argued, is based onthe faultynotion thatthe kind ofinformation we can see in a profile is actually usefulindetermining whetherthat personwould makea goodpartner. But because thekind of informationthat appears ona profile—occupation, income, religion, politicalviews, favorite TV shows, etc.—is the only information we know aboutthat person, we overvalue it. This can actually cause us to make very bad choicesabout whom wego on a datewith. “Encounteringpotential partnersvia online dating profiles reduces threedimensionalpeopleto twodimensionaldisplaysof information,” theauthors wrote, adding, “Itcanalso cause people tomake lazy, ill-advised decisionswhen selecting amongthe large array ofpotentialpartners.” Sheena Iyengar,aColumbia University professorwho specializesin research on choice, put ittome another way: “People are not products,” shesaid bluntly. “But, essentially, when you say, ‘I want a guythat’ssix foot talland has blah,blah, blahcharacteristics,’ you’re treatingahuman being like one.” It’sa goodpoint, butat the sametime, people doing online datinghave nochoice butto filtertheirprospects in someway, and once we accept that it’sreasonable to select for, say,location and job, who’sto say thatit’s superficial toselectfora doctorwholives in your area? Even if you believe Iyengar’s argumentthat sometimesonline datingsites encourage people to treat one anotherlike products, what choicedo you have? HelenFisher,a biological anthropologist whoadvises Match .com,saysthe answer is to avoid reading toomuch into any givenprofileand to resistthe temptation to start long onlineexchangesbefore afirst date. As Fisher seesit, there’s only one way to determine whether youhave a futurewithaperson: meeting them face-to-face. Nothing else can giveyoua sense of whata personisactually like, nor whetheryoutwo will spark. “Thebrain is the best algorithm,” Fisher argues. “There’snota datingservice on this planet thatcando whatthe humanbrain can do in terms of finding theright person.” This was probably the advicethat resonated with me the most. I wouldn’t know how to searchfor the thingsI loveabout mycurrent girlfriend. It’snotthe kind of stuff you can really categorize. WhenI’ve really beenin lovewithsomeone, it’s not because they lookeda certain way or liked a certain TV showor a certain cuisine. It’s more becausewhenIwatched acertain TVshowor ate a certain cuisine with them,it was the most fun thingever. Why?I couldn’t type out why. That doesn’tmean I’m skeptical ofonline dating; on the contrary, theresearch we’ve done has convinced me thatmillionsof people have used itto find what they’re looking for, froma one-night standto marriage anda family. But our research also convinced me that toomany people spend way too much time doing theonline part of online dating, not thedating part. After years of observing people’sbehaviorand consulting for Match.com, Fisher cameaway with a similarconclusion, which is why she advises online daters to keep their messagingto a minimum and tomeetthe person inreal life as quickly aspossible. “This isone of the reasonsthatit’s amisnomer thatthey callthese things ‘dating services,’” shesays. “They should becalled ‘introducing services.’ They enableyouto go out andgo and meet theperson yourself.” LaurieDavis, authorof Love at First Click andan online datingconsultant, advisesher clients to exchange a maximumof six messages before meetingoffline. This shouldprovide enoughinformation tolet them know whether they’d haveany possible interestin dating theperson. Everything after thatis usuallyjust postponing the inevitable. “Online datingisjust a vehicle to meet more people,” she says. “It’s not theplace to actually date.” For somepeople,mostly women, thisadvicewasn’t convincing. As they seeit,the Internet makesconnections happen too fast, andtheir concerns aboutsafety make them reluctantto goout and meetsomeone in person beforethey feellike they really know them. Many of the peoplewho spoke tousin focus groupsdescribed textingor messaging a potential partnerfor weeks without actually going on a date. Onewoman in New York City named Kim showed us an exchangeshe’d had with a man on OkCupid thatshe’d ended because he asked her outfor coffee after justa few messages within a twenty-minute span. Thetwo were involved in somefunny instantmessages, and Kimcommented on how awkwardmeeting people online canbe. The guy wrote back, “I would much rather connect with you in person thanthis onlinething because justlike you I thinkthis is ‘awkward.’” This madeKim incrediblyanxious. “UnfortunatelyI don’t drinkcoffee,” shewrote. But thenshewrote herreal concern: “I actually don’t know that you’renota serial killer.” Theguyresponded quickly. “I’m notsure you’re notone either, but doesn’t thatmake itmore exciting. I’m willing totake arisk if you are. Whatabouthot chocolate?” Seemslike this wouldn’t be ahugedeal. She’s on the dating siteto meetpeopleand date them. They’d be ina public placedrinking hot chocolate. He wasn’tlike, “How about we meetatthat dumpster behindthe Best Buyon Two NotchRoad?” But Kim was not having it. Sheendedit. “Idon’t know. The more messages you get, the moreof a good feelingyou have for that person. You don’twant togo on a baddate. So if you have these messagesgoing back and forth andyouconnect with each message, you like them more andthe chancesof it goingwell arehigher.” No doubt thereare many womenwho share Kim’s perspective,and with all the creepy dudesoutthere who actually doharass women, I can’t really fault them. As HelenFisher seesit,though, all thesemessages aren’t goingto do muchto assuage aperson’s deep concerns. Ultimately, meeting in person is the only way to know whethersomething is going to work. SWIPING: TINDER AND BEYOND One ofthe toughparts of writing a book like this is you have no cluehowthe landscapewillchange once you’redone,but as of this writing, nothing seems to be rising faster than mobile datingappslikeTinder. Contrary tothe laborintensiveuser experienceof traditionalonline dating, mobiledating apps generally operate onamuchsimpler and quicker scale. Right now, Tinder is by far the industry leader and has spawned imitators. For our purposes, we’ll use it as an exampleto describe thephenomenonin general. Signing upfor Tinder is almost instantaneous. You download theapp andsimply link in throughyour Facebook account. No questionnairesor algorithms. As soonas you sign in, Tinder uses your GPS locationto find nearbyusers and starts showing youa seemingly endless supply of pictures of potential partners. After you glance at each photo, you swipethe picture to theright ifyou’re interestedin the personor to the left ifyou’re not. Youcan explorethe profiles more and seesome very basic information, but generally the userexperience involves seeingsomeone’s photo and swipingleftor rightpretty quicklydepending on whetheryouareattracted to them. If you andanother user are interested in each other, meaningyouboth swiped righton each other’sfaces, thenthe appinforms youthat you’vefounda match and you can begin messaging each other inprivate within the app to arrangea date or hookup orwhatever. As of October2014,the app has more than fiftymillion users and the companyisvalued anywhere from$750 million to $1 billion. Tinder wasconceived in 2011 by Sean Radand Justin Mateen, two University of Southern California undergrads who set out to createan online datingexperience that didn’t feel like online dating. Modeling their interfaceon a deck of cards, Rad andMateen wanted Tinder to seemlike a game, onea usercould playalone or with friends. It was low stakes andeasyto use,and, if you played it well,you might hook upwithsomeone ina matter of hours—thepolar oppositeof a tense, emotionally draining quest for asoulmate. “Nobody joins Tinder because they’re looking for something,” Rad told Time.13 “They join because they want to have fun.” Andbecause his name is SeanRad,heprobably said thatquoteto Time andthen tossedon apairof cool shades, hoppedon a skateboard,and blazed on outta there. Like Facebook,Tinder’s birthplace was college. But while Facebook began its rollout in the Ivy League, Tinder aimed for famous party schools likeUSCand UCLA. Quick side note: In numerous interviews Mateen is identified as someone with abackgroundin party planning, which is a ridiculous résuméitem. “Areyou fit for the position?” “Yes,Ihave a strong background in partyplanning. I promise you, I can get this party started.” Mateenwantedto build buzznot throughtraditional advertising but bygetting the app into the handsof “social influencers” who could spread Tinder by word of mouth. Hepersonallytracked down andsigned up thekind ofpeoplewhodidn’tneed to date online—models, sorority girls,fraternity presidents, and the like. Mateen and Tinder’s then vicepresident ofmarketing, WhitneyWolfe, wentdoor to door through the schools’ Greek system, preaching the gospelof smartphonehookups. After Tinder’s launchin September 2012—celebrated with a ragingparty at USC—the app took off andspreadlike wildfire acrosscampuses. Withinweeks,thousands of users had signed up, and90 percent of them werebetween the ages of eighteen and twenty-four. For a while Tinder was treated asthe solution to a long-standingdilemmafacing the onlinedating industry: How do wemake a straight versionof Grindr? Grindr was a revolutionary app that tookthemale gay community by stormafter its releasein 2009, attracting more than one milliondaily users within a fewyears. Aprecursor to Tinder,it was the firstmajor dating sitethat was primarily amobile app thatused GPS and a basic profilewitha phototo match people. Years before I heard of Tinder,I once sat with a gay friendin a sushi restaurant and was flooredwhenhe turnedon his Grindrapp and showed mea profile of a handsome guy. “It sayshe’s fifteenfeet away. Oh,shit. Look, he’s right over there,” he said, pointing to aguy sitting at thesushi bar. It was mind-blowing, but companiesstruggled to replicate itforthe straight world. The conventional wisdomwasthat straight womenwould never use a Grindr-typeapp, for reasons ranging fromsafetyconcerns to lackof suchstrong interest in casualsexwithstrangers. The Grindr teamattemptedit with an appcalled Blendr, but it didn’t catch on. But Tinder added a key feature that Grindr—and Blendr, for that matter— didn’t have:the mutual-interest requirement. This is the termIjust made up to describe how,on Tinder, you can’t engagewithanother userunless you both have swiped right, indicating interest ineachother. After our previous discussions of online dating, the appeal seems obvious. Take Arpan. No longer does he haveto worry about writing a long messageonly to getdismissed based on his looks. Theonlypeople he can messagearepeople who have already indicated interest in him. On thereverseside,for women, a dude can’tbother you unless you haveswiped righton him. Women were no longergetting harassed byan infinite userbaseof bozos; theywere engaging only with people they chose toengage. This change alonewas enoughof an improvement that, inOctober 2013, New York magazine proclaimed thatTinderhad solved online dating forwomen.14 Also, thestressof weedingthrough profiles,à la our friendDerek, is gone too. You are justswiping on faces. It’slike a game. This aspect of Tinder’s user experienceishuge. Even thefact thatsigning up is so easy is a game changer. I remembersigning up fora dummy OkCupid account, just tosee what the site was like. It took forever. There were so many questionsthat I eventually justhad an assistantanswer them. It felt likea chore. Meanwhile, when researching Tinder,I was in theback ofa cab andIquicklysignedin through a Facebook account. Withinseconds, I was swipingand enjoying theapp with afriend. Aftereach photo, my friendand I debated our thoughts ona particular personor checked to see if they hadmore pictures. Sometimesa user wouldcome upwithmutual friends, and thatwould spark adialogue. There was nodenyingit. There was somethingweirdly entertaining and gamelike about Tinder. Whenthe app first started popping up, people in allourfocusgroups describedsigning upfor amusement oras a jokeand swipingprofileswithfriends in a group setting. They said using the app was actually fun and social,which was simplyunheard of in allour conversations aboutother online datingsites. At thesame time, though, people’sattitude toward Tinder was strange. Whenwe first started asking people about it inlate 2013, they wouldn’tsaythey were onit looking for datesor evensex. They wouldsaythatthey had signed upon alark. They treated it like aparty game. Anyonewhowasa serious userwas basicallyusingit as ahookupapp for sex. Herearea few exemplary quotes fromafocus group we heldin December2013: Hi, I’m Rena. I’m twenty-three and I signed up for Tinder, like, three months ago, just because I was drunk and with a friend. Hi, I’m Jane. I’m twenty-four and I have a similar experience with Tinder where I was, like, at a party with friends and they were like, “This is the funnest game ever. Let’s play this.” And I downloaded it. And then, like, started seeing way too many people I knew. So I deleted it. Those who did acknowledge that they’d actually usedTinderfelta little self-conscious aboutit. “I’m not gonna marry a guy fromTinder,” one woman said. “Yeah, Tinder’svery, like, hookup,” added another. What, we asked,would you do if youmet someone you actually liked onTinder? Onewoman said she’d be embarrassed to tell people she’d metsomeone on Tinder,whereasanother site, likeJDate,would havebeen fine. But by late 2014 people’s attitudes aboutTinderwere dramaticallydifferent, especially inthe bigcities where it first got popular. People wespoke with inNew York and LosAngeleswere using Tinder as the go-to dating app. It wasn’t justa sex app. Itwasn’tagame. People were using it tomeet people for relationships and dating because it was quick, fun,and easy. Thechangein perception was startling. In October 2014 we asked peopleon our subreddit to tell usabout their experienceswithTinderand other swipe apps. Sure, we gotsome stories aboutpeople using the sitefordrunken hookups,but wealsogota lot likethese: I live in Atlanta, and when Dragon*Con came through I figured it would be the perfect opportunity for some hilarious stories. I started using it with my best friend and we’d send each other screenshots of our weird and scary messages and profiles we’d seen. Then I started matching with some legitimately cool dudes who I had shared interests with and had nice conversations with and I started taking it a lot more seriously . . . I’m actually currently dating a guy I met off Tinder, we’ve been exclusive for about a month now? It’s going well, I like him a lot and we’re very happy. I deleted it after we agreed to be exclusive. Based onthe responses we got,itseems likemany people who starton Tinder for laughs wind upfinding something moremeaningful thanthey expected. One man wrote: The first time I had seriously used Tinder I ended up meeting [someone] who’s now my girlfriend. I wasn’t particularly looking for a serious commitment or anything, but I was just kind of going with it. It’s weird because I always thought that I’ve done tinder wrong because it didn’t end up in just a hookup and now I’m actually dating this girl. I haven’t used the app since we started dating in the beginning of the summer. Clearly, Tinder is working forpeople. Justtwo years afteritwasreleased, Tinder reported that it was processing twobillion swipes and generating twelve million matches aday. Andnotjust on collegecampuses. Today the average user istwentyseven, andit’s quickly becoming popular throughout the world.15 Nearthe end of 2014, Tinder claimed that the average userlogged on eleventimesper dayand spentapproximately seven minuteson each session, meaningtheyaretherefor more than 1.25hours each day. That’san amazing amountof time todo anything, let alone move your fingersaround a tiny screen. There arealsoimitators. OkCupid developed aswipetypeapp for its users. There is apopularstart-upcalled Hinge thatmatchespeople Tinder style, but users have to havemutual friends on Facebook. Other new apps are surely on the way. Swipeapps likeTinder definitely seemto bewhere online dating is headed. Weirdly,these apps havealso cometo signify astrange sense ofwonder aboutwhat it meansto be single today. In our interviews,people in relationshipsin their thirties orforties lamented the fact thatthey weren’t ableto experiencethe single lifein the “ageof Tinder.” Theapp symbolizes the opportunity to meet/date/hook up with beautiful people whenever you want. Is thatthe reality? In a sense,yes. The appis almost magical inthe way you areso quicklyexposed to exciting and beautifulpossibilitiesfor your romanticlife. To think, justtwenty years ago we were buying ads in a fucking newspaper! One gentleman we interviewedtoldusthat he literally could notget off the app, so overwhelmed was he by the enormous number of single women who were suddenly accessible. “I was literally addicted toit,” he recounted. “I had to deleteit.” Another womanrecalled being so hookedon Tinder thatshewason herway toa date and swipingto seeif there was anothermore attractiveguyout there to meetup with in case her existingdate was abust. But, likeany dating trend, swipeapps havetheir pitfalls. The userbaseisn’t exclusively attractivesingles looking tohave agood time; there isplenty ofriffraffas well. Despite themutual interest factor, you can find plenty of Tinder conversations on Straight White BoysTextingfilled with matches who are spouting filth. Countless guys havealsobeen luredto engage with women who werebad news or, worseyet, botsand/or prostitutes. Thebiggest criticism of swipe apps is that, with their reliance on purely physical attraction, Tinder and the like represent increasing superficiality among online daters. (“Tinder:TheShallowest Dating App Ever?” asksthe 16)Guardian. But Ithink that’s too cynical. Walkingintoa bar or party, alot of timesall you haveto go by ispeople’s faces, and that’s what you use to decide ifyou aregoing to gather upthe courageto talk to them. Isn’t theswipe app justa HUGE party full of faces thatwe can swiperight to go talk to? In the case of the girlI’m currently dating,Iinitially saw herface somewhere and approached her. Ididn’thave an in-depth profile toperuse ora fancy algorithm. I just had her face, andwestarted talkingand it worked out. Is thatexperience so different fromswiping on Tinder? “I think Tinderis a great thing,” says HelenFisher, the anthropologist whostudies dating. “AllTinderisdoing is givingyousomeone to look at that’s in theneighborhood. Then you let thehuman brain with his brilliantlittle algorithm tick, tick, tick off whatyou’relooking for.” In this sense,Tinder actually isn’t so different fromwhatourgrandparents did, nor is theway my friend used onlinedating tofind someone Jewish who lived nearby. Ina world ofinfinite possibilities,we’ve cut down our optionsto people we’re attracted toin our neighborhood. USING TECHNOLOGY TO GAIN ROMANTIC FREEDOM For those who don’tlive in a worldof infinite options, digital technologyprovides another benefit, andI hadn’t thoughtaboutit until we interviewed people inone of theworld’smost uniquedating cultures: Qatar. Thebenefit is privacy. The secret worldsof the phone andthe Internet provide single people a degree offreedomand choice in less open societies. Needless tosay, the singlesscenein Qatar is not quite likewhat weobserved anywhere elsein the world. Those from religious and traditionalfamilies are literally prohibited from casual dating. Flirting in public placesgets ayoung person inserioustrouble, and it’sespeciallydangerous for youngwomen, whoare expected tobechaste until marriage andrisk bringing terrible shameto themselves and theirparentsif they are caught courting a man. One onlineguide warns: “No public displays of affection: Kissing, hugging, and some places even holding hands . .. The result isjail time.”17 That’s a prettygrim prisonstory. “Hey, man,what areyou in for?” “Doing five years for holding hands in thepark.” “You?” “Doing life .. . for smooches.” Since casualdating is prohibited, families— mainlythe mothers—do the matchmaking in Qatar. Marriagesarearranged, and for the women we interviewed, theincentives to tie theknotare oddly reminiscent of those expressed bythe older American women we interviewedin the senior centers. A twenty-seven-year-old named Amirah told us, “The main thing you needto understand aboutmarriage hereis that the parties to the contractarerarely theman and woman entering it. It’s the families; it’sthe group. “There’s, like,a mating season,” Amirah said, “and it’sthe motherswhodo the initial screening. Themothers ofboys go fromone house to the other. They’relookingfor womenwho aresuitable based on familybackground and education. They’re looking for naseeb,their family’s destiny formarriage. “Theother thing toknow about marriage,” Amirah continued, “isthat it’s attractiveto younggirls because they want to move outand gettheirfreedom.” Herfriend Leila, atwentysix-year-old lawyerwho was also onthe video chat, noddedin agreement. “When I first cameback toDoha after I graduated from university, I went to visit [Amirah’s] house,” she began. “My mother calledme and said, ‘It’s going tobe nine P.M.; you shouldcome home.’ They’dalways call me when I was out tofind out where I was andaskwhenI was cominghome. If Iwent shopping, they’dsay, ‘Stop. We havea maid who can do that!’ If Iwaswitha friend, they’dsay, ‘Comehome!’ They justdidn’twantme out.” After college, Leila couldn’t toleratethis level of parentalsupervision. “I didn’t wantto be at home with my familyall the time,” she told us. “I wanted to have my freedom back. But women fromtraditionalfamilies can’t livealone inQatar. The only way you can leave your family’s home is toget married ordie.” I told Leila thatthis broughtup anotherpoint: that Get Married or Die Trying wouldbea great name for her debut rapalbum. EventuallyLeiladecided to getmarried. She told her mother thatshewasreadyfor ahusband, and her family quicklyfounda suitableman. They spoke byphone and had afew visits with each other’s families, though not any privatetime together. Leila was nervous. But she had the impression that “he really loved me.” More important: “He was offeringme a chance to start myownlife.” Unfortunately, the new lifehe offered wasn’t much ofanimprovement. The husbandwasbasicallyas controlling as her parents. He wouldget upsetwhen she wentplaces without telling him. Leilawasreadyto be a modern,independent wife, buther husband wanted something moretraditional. NeitherLeilanorher husband was happy with thesituation, and one day hecame home and announcedthat he wanted a divorce. “The decision wasn’tmine,” Leila said. “And it wasn’t easy. My parents kept things hanging— theywouldn’tletme signthe divorcepapers, becausethey had anidea thatwemight get back together. I had to move back in with them. Ihad a curfewagain, aroundeleven P.M.,depending on my dad’s mood. I had to report where I was going. They called meall the time.” Leila was stuckin limbo. Herhusband didn’t want to be with her. Her parents wouldn’thelp her find anotherman because they didn’t wanther toget divorced. “So Iactually waited for them to leave town and then I went tocourt and gotdivorcedwithout them knowing,” she explained. “They were furious,and they basically groundedme. I was on house arrest for months. Now the guy I was with is gettingremarried, and my parents are willing tomove on too.” Grounded?You realize I haven’tbeen groundedby my parents since Ihad a bed frame that was shapedlike a bright red racecar. I couldn’t imaginebeing under such strict supervision. I would do anything toget outof it—and so would the Qataris. Qatari women’s stories about feelingtrapped at home and lacking basic adult freedoms sounded surprisingly similarto the stories we heard fromthe older American womenwe interviewedatthe senior center in NewYork City. And,as for theAmericans, for Qatari womenmarriage offered away out. But the contemporaryQatarisalso haveanother option for gettinga tasteof freedom: digitaltechnology. With the riseof smartphones, socialmedia, and the Internet,young Qataris are using technology to flout these repressiverules. For instance, socializingwith the opposite sex in publicis notallowed, so Qataris are using the Internettoorganize smallprivate parties inhotel rooms. Oneof theyoung womenwemet told us that hotels are a bigpartof Qatari culture, becausethat’swhere you find barsand restaurants, and thesedays it’snot uncommon to receive a group messagethat tellspeoplewho know oneanother tomeetin acertain room. Oncethey arrive at thehotellobby, the cover provided by the females’ burkas allowsthem to wanderin anonymously and go wherever theyneed to go. By blendingsomething old, theburka, and something new, theInternet, Qatari youthhave created their own novel wayto connect. Qataris are not gettingall the benefitsof theInternet. Online dating sites have yet to takeoff. Instagram is startingto spread,but the culturefrowns upontaking photos of all thingspersonal, so instead people shoot and shareinteresting objectsthat theysee inpublic life. “We’ve alwaysbeen a photophobic society,” oneof the Qataris weinterviewed told us. “People don’twant any record ofthemselves in public. Especially when people are out in clubs or malls. Their familiescould get very upset.” Therecord of such photoswould be potentiallyscandalous. Then cameSnapchat. The app workson the promisethattheimage you send will disappear from users’ phones after afew seconds. The apphasallowed youngQatarisinglesto take risksin the privacy oftheir phone world thatwould be unthinkable otherwise. “People sendall kinds of photos, from explicitto casual,” ayoung woman explained. “The technology is makingpeople more ballsy. It givespeopleaway to connect.” Occasionally things go wrong, ofcourse. Sadly, “guyssometimes get photos ofgirls[throughscreengrabs] thatwould dishonorthemand thenusethat toextract things fromthem,” welearned. But overall, theyoung people we metargued,social media is givingpeople in Qatar andin the UnitedArabEmirates more newways to meet and expressthemselves. In the Emirates,and pretty mucheverywhere, socialmediaand the Internet are introducingallkinds of new options into socialand romantic life. And whileit’s exciting, sometimes even exhilarating,to have more choices, it’s notnecessarily makinglifeeasier. CHAPTER4CHOICE AND OPTIONS My parents had an arranged marriage. This alwaysfascinated me. I am perpetually indecisiveon even the mostmundane decisions, and Icouldn’t imagineleaving such an important choiceto other people. I asked my dadto describe his experience to me. This was his process. He told his parents he was ready to getmarried, so his family arranged meetings with three neighboring families. The first girl, he said, was a “littletoo tall,” and the secondgirlwasa “little tooshort.” Then he met mymom. After he quickly deduced that she was the appropriate height (finally!), theytalkedfor about thirty minutes. Theydecidedit wouldwork. Aweek later, theywere married. Andtheystill are, thirty-five years later. Happilyso— and probably more so than most older white people I know who hadnonarranged marriages. Sothat’showmy dad decided onwhom he was goingto spendthe rest of his lifewith. Meetinga few people, analyzingtheir height, anddeciding on one after talkingto herforthirty minutes. It was like he went on thatMTVdating show Next and marriedmy mom. Let’s look at how I do things, maybe with a slightly lessimportantdecision. How about thetime Ihad to pick where to eat dinner in Seattle when I was ontour in the springof 2014? First I texted four friends who travel andeatout a lot and whose judgmenton food I really trust. While I waited for recommendations from them,I checked the website Eater for its “Heat Map,” which includes new,tasty restaurants in thecity. I also checked the “Eater38,” which is the site’s list of the thirty-eightessential Seattle restaurants and standbys. Then I checked reviewson Yelpto seewhatthe consensus was on there. I also checked an online guideto Seattle in GQ magazine. I narrowed downmy search after consulting allthese recommendations and then wenton therestaurant websitesto checkoutthe menus. At thispoint I filtered all these options down by tastiness, distance, and what mytum-tumtoldme it wanted to eat. Finally, aftermuch deliberation,Imademy selection:Il Corvo. A deliciousItalian place that soundedamazing. Freshmadepasta. They only did three differenttypes aday. I was very excited. Unfortunately, itwas closed. Itonly served lunch. By now I hadrunoutof time because Ihad ashowto do, so I ended upmakinga peanut-butter-and-banana sandwich on the bus.* This kind ofrigor goes into alot of mydecision making. Whether it’swhere I’m eating, where I’m traveling, or, god forbid, something I’mbuying, Ifeel compelled to do alot of research to make sureI’m getting the best. Atcertain times, though, this “I need the best” mentalitycan be debilitating. I wish I could justeatsomewhere that looks good andbe happy with my choice. But I can’t. The problem is thatI know somewhere there isa perfect mealforme andIhave todo howevermuch research I can to findit. That’s thething about the Internet: Itdoesn’t simply helpusfind the bestthing out there; it has helped to produce the ideathat there is abest thing and,if we searchhard enough, wecanfind it. And in turntherearea whole bunch of inferior thingsthat we’d be foolish to choose. Here’s aquicklist of things Icanthink ofthat I’ve spentatleastfiveto ten minutesresearching: •Electric citrus juicer (Waitingon thisone toarrive in themail. Hope I didn’t fuck itup. Don’t wanttoo much pulpin my juice!) •Taxidermy(I started off looking for a deeror bear, but I ended up findinga beautiful penguin inParis. Hisname is Winston.) •Whichprestigious TV drama to binge-watch next (The Americans, House of Cards,or Orphan Black? The answer: I watched allof them while telling my publisher I was writing this book.) •Bag for mylaptop •Protective casefor my laptop •Internet-blocking program so I can stop using my laptopsomuch •Museums (Gotta peepthe exhibits onlinebefore I commit todriving allthe way out there, right?) •Coasters (Ifyou dig deep, you can findsome dope coasters with dinosaurs on them!) •Vanilla ice cream (Had tostep it up from Breyers, and there’sa lot of debate in theice cream fan community—there arefiercedebates onthose message boards.) It’snotjust me, though. I maytake things toextremes sometimes, but we live in a culturethat tellsus wewant and deserve thebest,and now we havethe technologyto get it. Thinkabout the overwhelmingpopularityof websitesthatarededicated to our pursuitof thebest things available. Yelpfor restaurants. TripAdvisor for travel. Rotten Tomatoes and Metacriticformovies. A fewdecades ago, ifI wanted to researchvanilla ice cream,what would I have even done? Cold-approach chubbyguys and thenslowly steer theconvo towardice cream to gettheirtake? No, thanks. Nowadays the Internet is mychubby friend. It is the whole world’s chubby friend. THE “BEST” ROMANTIC PARTNER? If this mentalityhas so pervadedour decision making,then itstands to reason thatit is also affecting oursearch for a romantic partner, especially if it’s going tobe long-term. Ina sense, it already has. Remember: We areno longer the generationof the “good enough” marriage. Weare now looking for our soul mates. And evenafterwefind our soulmates, if we start feelingunhappy, we get divorced. Ifyou arelooking for your soul mate, now is the time to doit. Consider the rich social infrastructure of bars, nightclubs, and restaurants in cities. Add to thatthe massiveonline dating industry. Then throwin the factthat people now get married laterin life thanever beforeand spendtheir twenties in “early adulthood,” which is basically dedicated to exploring romantic options and having experiencesthat previous generations couldn’t haveimagined. College,finding our careers, movingout onour own to differentcities and partsof theworld—in early adulthoodweare constantly being introduced to newand excitingpoolsof romantic options. Even theadvances inthe past few years arepretty absurd. You can standin line at the grocery store andswipe sixty people’s faceson Tinder while you waitto buy hamburger buns. That’s twenty times more people thanmy dad meton his marriage journey. (Note: For thosewondering, the best hamburger bunsare Martin’s PotatoRolls. Trustme!) Whenyou think aboutall this,you have to acknowledgesomething profoundabout thecurrent situation: In thehistory of our species, no group has everhad asmany romantic optionsas we have now. So, intheory, this should be agreatthing. Moreoptions is better,right? Well. It’s notthateasy. Barry Schwartz is a professor ofpsychology at SwarthmoreCollegewhohas spentmuchof hiscareer studying the annoying problems that comefrom havinganabundance of options. Schwartz’s research, and aconsiderable amountof scholarship from other social scientiststoo, shows that when we havemoreoptions, we are actuallyless satisfied and sometimes evenhave a hardertime making a choice at all. WhenI thought backto thatsadpeanut-butter-andbanana sandwich Ihad in Seattle, this idearesonated with me. Schwartz’s wayof thinking aboutchoice grew popular when he published his book The Paradox of Choice.But for decadesmost people presumed the opposite: The more choices we had, themore likely we wouldbeable to maximize our happiness. In the 1950s the pioneeringscholar Herbert Simon paved the wayfor people likeSchwartzby showingthatmost of the time people are not all that interestedin gettingthe best possible option. Generally, Simon argued, people and organizations lack thetime, knowledge, andinclination to seek out “the best” and are surprisingly contentwitha suboptimaloutcome. Maximizingis just too difficult, so we wind up being “satisficers” (a termthat combines “satisfy” and “suffice”). Wemay fantasize about havingthe best of something, butusually we are happy tohave something that’s “good enough.” According toSimon, people can be maximizers and satisficersin different contexts. For example, when it comes to, let’ssay, tacos, I’m a maximizer. I’lldo a rigorous amount of research to make sureI’m gettingthe best tacoI can find, because for me there is a huge difference inthe taco experience. Asatisficerwill justget tacos wherever they seea decent taco stand and call ita day. Ihate getting tacos with thesepeople. Enjoy your nasty tacos, losers. IfI’m pickinggasoline for my car,though, I’mmore ofa satisficer. Idriveinto whatevergasstation isclose, loadthe cheapestshit Icanto fill mytank, andget the fuck outof there. It sounds pretty meanto my car,butIreally don’tgive a shitand notice no differencein performance for the quality ofgas. Sorry, Prius. Now, Iunderstand that there isa certainkindof “car guy” outtherewho would find my choiceof gasolineas horrifyingas Ifindthe choice ofsuboptimal tacos. To thatI say: Stopcaring so much about gasoline, you ding-dong!Spend that money on good tacoslike a nice, normal person. WhatSchwartzsuggests, however, is that cultural, economic,and technological changessince the time that Simon wrote have changed the choice-makingcontext. Because ofsmartphones and the Internet, our optionsare no longer limited to what’s in the physicalstore where we are standing. Wecan choose fromwhat’s in every store, everywhere. We havefar more opportunitiesto become maximizers than we would havehad justa few decades ago. And thatnew contextis changing who we are and how we live. I noticed this in myself with Christmasornaments. Why would Ibeanything but asatisficer with Christmas ornaments? It’s pretty standard. The balls, thestring oflights, etc. Well, do some Internet searchingand you find some amazing ornaments. A Back to the Future DeLorean, little dinosaurs (!),a funny dude on amotorcycle. I ordered them all! Thesetypes of ornaments wouldn’thave evenentered mymind beforethe Internet allowed meto seethese other options. Now my standards for Christmas ornaments had gone up, andIwanted the best. Sadly, dueto shipping delays, most of the ornaments I ordered arrived in late January, butmy tree was extra dopein February. Besides gasoline, it’s damn nearimpossible for me to thinkof anythingwhereI won’tput intimeto find the best. I’m a maximizerin nearly everything. Bottled water? Yup. You buy oneof the bozo brandsand you get bottledwaterthat’sjust tap water in a bottle. Potato chips?Ruffles? No, thank you. Passthe Sweet Onion Kettle Chips. Candles? If you only knew how good the candlesin myhousesmell. It’ssoeasyto find and get thebest,sowhynot? What happensto people who lookfor andfind the best? Well, it’s badnews again. Schwartz, along with twobusinessschool professors,dida study of college seniors preparingto enter the workforce.1 Forsix monthsthe researchers followed theseniorsas they applied forand started new jobs. Theythen classifiedthe students into maximizers (studentswhowere looking for the bestjob) and satisficers (students whowere looking for a jobthat met certain minimum requirements and was “good enough”). Here’s whatthey found: On average, themaximizers putmuch more time and effort into their jobsearch. They did more research, asked morefriends for advice, and wenton more interviews. In return, the maximizers inthe study got better jobs. Theyreceived,on average,a 20 percent higher startingsalary than the satisficers. After they started their jobs, though, Schwartz and his colleaguesasked the participants how satisfied theywere. What theyfound was amazing. Even though the maximizershad better jobsthan thesatisficers,by every psychologicalmeasure theyfelt worse aboutthem. Overall, maximizershad less jobsatisfactionand wereless certain they’dselected the rightjob at all. The satisficers, by contrast, were generally more positiveabout their jobs, the search process, and theirlives in general. Thesatisficers had jobs thatpaid less money, but they somehow feltbetterabout them. Searching for a jobwhen you’re in college is hardlya typical situation,soI asked Schwartz if perhapsthis study was justcapturing something unique. Itwasn’t. Schwartz isan encyclopedia of psychologicalresearch on choiceproblems. If askedto givea quoteabouthimfor the back of abook cover,I would say, “Thismotherfucker knows choice.” As he explainedit,the maximizers inthe job-search experimentwere doingwhat maximizers generally do: Rather thancompareactual jobs, with their various pros and cons,in their minds they woundup selecting the features of each particular job and creating a “fantasy job,” an idealthat neither theynor, probably, anyone else would everget. Johnny Satisficeris sitting around at his dum-dum job, eating hisdisgusting subpar tacoand thinking about hanging his generic Christmasornaments lateron. Buthe’s totallyhappy about that. Meanwhile, I’ve just foundoutthe taco placeI researched forhours isclosed on Sundays, and even though this year I have mydope Christmasornaments,I’m worried there’s a better Christmasornament outthere thatIdon’tknowabout yet and am spendingmy holidays with the Internetinstead of myfamily. THE PARADOX OF CHOICE IN RELATIONSHIPS Whenapplied to modern romance,theimplications ofthese ideas on choice are slightly terrifying. Ifweare the generation with the greatestset of options, what happens toour decision making? By Schwartz’s logic, we are probably lookingfor “the best” and, infact, we are looking for our soul mates too. Isthis possible tofind? “How many people doyou need to see before you know you’vefoundthe best?” Schwartz asked. “The answer is every damn person there is. How elsedo you know it’s the best?If you’re looking for the best, thisisa recipe for completemisery.” Completemisery!(Read in a scaryAziz whisper voice.)* Ifyou arein abig city or on anonline dating site, you are flooded with options. Seeing allthese options, like the peoplein the job example, are we now comparing our potential partnersnot toother potential partnersbut rather to an idealizedperson whom no one could measure upto? Andwhatif you’re not looking for yoursoul mate yet but justwant todate someone and commit to a girlfriend orboyfriend?How does our increase inoptions affect our abilityto commit? To be honest,even picking lunch in Seattlewaspretty tough. Ifwe, like the peoplein the job study, are creatinga “fantasy” person fullof all our desired qualities, doesn’t the vastpotentialof the Internet andallourother romantic pools give us the illusionthatthis fantasy person does, infact, exist? Why settle for anythingless? Whenwe brought these ideas upin focus groups, people responded tothese notionsimmediately. In the citywitharguablythe most options, New York City, people discussed how it was hard to settledown because every corneryou turned revealed morepotential opportunities. I’ve feltit myself. For much ofthe past few years, I splitmy time betweenNew York and L.A. When I first started dating my current girlfriend, whenI was in New York, I’d seepeople everywhere and feel like, Shit, should I ever take myself out of the single world? There’s so many people! Then I got backto L.A., where instead ofwalking in streets and subway stations full ofpotentialoptions, I wouldbealone inmy Prius filled with shittygasoline, listeningto a dumb podcast. I couldn’t wait to gethomeand hold my girlfriend. But the surgeof optionsis not limitedto people inNew York. AsSchwartztoldme, “Where didpeople meet alternatives thirtyyears ago? Itwas inthe workplace. How many shotsdid you have? Two or threepeople,maybe, who youfoundattractive, who werethe right age, or you meetsomebodywho your friend works with, and your friend fixes youup. So the set ofromantic possibilities thatyouactually confrontis going to be pretty small. “Andthat, it seems to me, is likefeeding inan environment where thefood is relatively scarce. Youfind somebody who seems simpatico. And you doas much asyoucanto cultivate thatperson because there may be along drought after that person. That’s what itused to be like. But now,” hesaid, “in principle, the world is available toyou.” Theworld is availableto us,butthat maybe the problem. TheColumbia professor Sheena Iyengar,whom we’ve met, was oneof Barry Schwartz’s coauthors onthe job-huntingstudy, and she also knows a shitton about choice. Through a series of experiments, Iyengar has demonstrated thatanexcess ofoptions can leadto indecision and paralysis. In oneof hermostinfluential studies, sheand another researchersetup atable at a luxury food store andoffered shopperssamples of jams.2 Sometimes the researchers offered six types ofjam, but other times theyoffered twenty-four. When they offered twenty-four, people weremore likely tostop in and have ataste. But, strangely, they were farless likely toactually buy any jam. Peoplewhostopped to taste thesmallernumber of jams were almost ten times more likelyto buyjam than people who stopped to taste the largernumber. Don’tyou see what’s happening tous?There’s just toomuch jamout there. If you’re on a datewith a certain jam, you can’t even focus, ’cause assoon as you go to the bathroom,three other jamshave texted you. You go online, you see more jamthere. You put in filters to findthe perfect jam. There are iPhone apps that literally tellyou if thereisjam nearby thatwants toget eaten at that particular moment! LIMITED OPTIONS: JOURNEYS TO WICHITA AND MONROE Would forcing usto select fromfewer options, as older generations did,actually makeus happier? Should we all just followmy dad’s example and find someoneof an idealheight andlock it down? Idecidedto get out of NewYork Cityand explore someplaces with limited options. Mytwo stops: Monroe, New York, and Wichita, Kansas. Monroeis aboutsixty milesoutside ofNew York City. It’s home to approximatelyeightthousand people. It’sa small community where most everyoneknows oneanother. There’snothing butstrip mallsand second-tiergrocery chainsyouneversee elsewhere. Ifyou click onthe “Attractions” tabon TripAdvisor’s Monroe page, it bringsup a messagethat says, “I’m sorry, you must haveclickedhere bymistake. No one could possiblybe planning a trip to Monroe to seeits ‘Attractions.’ I havea feelingaboutwhyyou’d want to go to Monroe. Here, let me redirectyouto asuicidepreventionsite.” Basically,not much is goingon. Wichita is much, much biggerthan Monroe. Its population isabout 385,000. A quick Googlesearch will showyoumanyarticles saying Wichita is oneof the worst datingcities in the country. Granted, there isn’t any scientific merittothese surveys, butthe conditions used togain this ranking makesense. Thereisa low proportionof single people and strikingly few venues where single people can gather, places like bars and coffee shops. The townis quite isolated anddoesn’t get much traffic fromnearby towns. One thingto note about people who livein places with limitedoptions is that theyget married young. Whereas in placeslike New York City andLos Angeles the average ageatfirst marriage is nowaround thirty, insmaller towns and lesspopulated states the typical age of first marriage for womenis as low as twenty-three (Utah),twentyfour(Idaho and Wyoming), ortwenty-five(a whole bunch of states,including Arkansas, Oklahoma,Alaska, and Kansas). Men inthese states tendto marry just a yearor two laterthan women. Could thelack ofoptions be forcing thesepeopleto commit earlier andget into serious relationships? Perhaps, but this doesn’t alwayswork outeither. In recent decades thedivorce ratein smalltownsand rural areas has skyrocketed, catching up to thelevels commonly foundin large cities.3So many of the people I metin Wichita told me about friendsof theirs who’d married beforethe age of twenty-five andthen divorced soonafter. Heather, for instance,wasonlytwentyfour, but she could already reportthat “a lotof my sorority pledge sisters got married anddivorcedwithin a year.” Within ayear. Damn. Let’s hope things don’t end like thatfor me andthe carefully researchedelectric juicer I just purchased. BeforeourinterviewsI had romanticizedthedating citieswith feweroptions and envisioned a happier, smaller communitywhere peoplereallygotto know oneanother,and instead of hopping aroundtryingto findthebest party,they all just wentto their one local spot andhad a goodtime. I imagined every guy had agirlnextdoor. They grew up together. Got to know each other theirwholelives and had areally deep bond. Oneday theyjust started boning and then they got married. I’m basing thaton nothing, butit seems correct, right? But talking with so many single people in Monroe and Wichita quickly demolished myfantasy thatthings were simplerand nicer in small towns. They generally hated their lack of optionsand the troublesthatcamewith it. Despitethe differencein size,the problems ofdating in Wichitaand Monroe overlapped quitea bit. All our singlesin both citiesfelt pressure tolock itdown and definitely felt likeoutliers by being single in theirlate twenties. This stigma ofbeing unmarried in yourlate twenties was never expressed in any of thefocusgroups in biggercities. A huge problem is that everyonealready knows allof his or her options prettywell. Josh, twenty-two,said his main pool ofdating options is generally limitedto asetof folks thathe and hisfriends haveknown since high school. “If Isee a girl at abar and Idon’t knowher, within thirtyseconds toaminute, I’ll find out who thatpersonisby justaskingaround,” he explained. “Her life story. Who she’s dated. You basically know everything about theperson.” Andfromtalking tothese folks, it appears when you don’tknow someone already, usually the “everything” is not “Oh he/she’s thebest. Brilliant,hilarious, and without anybaggage or complicated pastto speak of. Strange younever met!” No, it’sprobably closer to “Oh, him? He steals tiresand then sells them on eBayto buy corn chips.” In WichitaI metMiguel, who had moved from Chicago. He mournedthe fact thathenevermet new people anymore. In Chicagohe wouldmeet all kinds of people:friends offriends, coworkers, friendsof coworkers, and strangers whomhetalkedup in bars,in cafés, and even on public transit. InWichita,though, Miguel saidhemainly saw the few folks he worked with and spent his evenings with the samegroup of friends. This cliquish mentality was reported inbothMonroe and Wichita. One guy in Wichita described it likethe gangsin The Warriors. People have their cliques and theyrarely stray outside of them to meet newpeople. This leads toa lot ofpeople dating theirway through the same small groups, and after they’vedated everyone, they’releftin abad spot. Finding new people isn’t easy when no one new is coming to town. Sometimes peoplethink they’vediscovereda new person, only to discover that theyshare moreconnections thanthey realized. In both Monroeand Wichitawe heard stories ofpeople meetingsomeone they thought was a new personbut thengoing onFacebookand seeingforty-eight mutual friends. A girl named Heather told me that onetime she met agreatguy she’d never seen beforeand was really excited about thepossibilities, only to discoverthat he’d onceslept with agirl she totally despised. Thissoured the whole thing. Thegirl? Actress Gwyneth Paltrow. Notreally, but can you imagine? Soon afterward, a guy named Greg recounted a story ofgoing out with agirl: On the datethey startedsharing the stories of howthey’d lost their virginity. Hesoon figured out thatthe guyshe’d losther virginity to was a close friend andcoworker of his. That coworker? Football star O. J. Simpson. Notreally, but again, could you imagine?How weird wouldthatbe?To sleep with someone who lost her virginityto O. J. Simpson?! WEIRD! “It’slike a cesspool,” said Michelle, a twenty-sixyear-old from Monroe. “Everybody has slept with each other.” Also, when you’re going outwithpeople in sucha limitedpool ofoptions, issues I’d never thought of came up. One:Whenyou go out on a date, you will run into everyoneyouknow,so sometimessingles travelfora little privacy. “Iwent on a date lastnight,but itwasin a totallydifferent town,” a twenty-one-year-oldMonroe residentnamedEmilytoldus. “I wouldnevergo ona first date somewhere inmy town because Iknow all the waiters. I know allthe bartenders. I know everybody.” Two: You losethe initial discovery periodof getting to know someonebecause you are so connectedand familiar already. This can be an advantageand a disadvantage. Theadvantage is youget to prescreen everyonethrough friends of friends, but the downside is thatyou losethat fun of gettingto know someone. In Monroe, Emily reported, “You already know theirlife story, soyoudon’t even have to go on a first date. You havealreadyprejudged them beforeyou’ve even gone out.” Andfinally, ifyoudo go outwithsomeone andit goes badly, youhave todeal with the fact thatyou’re going to seethat personallthe time. Comparethis with a place likeLos Angeles, where Ryan, twenty-three, said that he could gooutwith someone and, ifit wentbadly, befairly confident he would never see them again. “It was almost likethey were dead. Like, in away, youmurdered them in your mind,” hesaid. Damn, Ryan, let’s chill on themind murders!But I understandhis sentiment. Whataboutexpanding the poolof optionswiththe Internet andothersocial media? Wereany ofthese singlesusing online dating? Smartphone swipe apps? In Wichitapeople were shierabout online dating. There was still astigma,and with such a small pool there was aworrythat people wouldsee yourprofileand judge you. Josh, fromMonroe, decided togive Tinder a try: “I set [the range] forten miles at first becauseIwantto makethis quick. Two people pop up, andI’m like, no[he swiped his finger to theleft], no [he swiped again], and then . .. it was done. AndI was like, Damn, I thought there’d be more. Can I get those back?” Others hadmoreluck. Margaret, one ofthe few Wichita singles who had tried online dating, said, “Ithink thatthe online datingthing, whatI’m finding is that there’s so much choice, I’m like, Oh my god. All these guys could be great.” Another dater also tried Tinder. “I started in Wichita butran out ofpeople after justa weekor so. I then went to Pennsylvania,near Penn State University, for a few days and decided to testitout there. Ifeltlike I could swipe through peopleforyears. This justshowedme how limited optionswere inKansas.” Of course, not everyone was disappointedby thelack ofoptions inthese small towns. One gentleman in the Monroegroup, Jimmy, age twenty-four, had amore positiveattitude. Whenever someone expressed frustration with the lack of optionsin the datingscene, Jimmywould insistthat you simplyneeded toinvesttime in peopleto really get to know them. “Ifyou’repatientand you know what youlike, you’ll find what youlike in anotherperson. There’s going to be thingsyoudon’t like about them. They don’tclip their toenails. They don’t wash theirsocks.” I told JimmyI feltlike he could find someone with clean socksand trimmed toenails, and maybethe bar was set abit too low. “Thepoint is there’s alwaysgoing tobesomething thatbothers you,youknow? Butit’s upto you,” hesaid. This positive attitude was echoed in Wichitaas well. “I feeloptimisticabout Wichita,” said Greg, twentysix. “I know that there’s people herethat would surpriseme. You have to put alittlebit moreeffortinto the relationship. But it’sstill there somewhere.” “I agree,” saidJames, twenty-four. “There’s still gold here. You just have to look hard enough.” It was a beautiful thingto hear. The attitudeof these guyswasto give people a chance. Instead of sampling a bunch of jams, they had learned how tofocus on one jamand make sure they could appreciateitbefore they walked away. Themore I thoughtabout thatapproach todating, the more appealing it became. No matter how many options we have, thereal challengeis figuringouthow toevaluate them. After my conversations in Monroe andWichita,I thought about how popular online datingisin NewYork Cityand L.A., how almost everyonein all thefocus groupsthereused the sites, and the storieslike the womanwho was Tindering on her wayto adate to try to find a better dateafterward. Maybeweare turning into the peoplefrom thejob study,tryingto find a crazy, unattainable job. Maybeweare trying to meeteverysingleperson in orderto be sure wehave the best. Maybewehave itall wrong. Maybeweneed tohave a little more faith inhumanity, likeourpositive buds in Wichita andMonroe. Look at my dad:He hadan arranged marriage andhe seems totally happy. I lookedintoitand thisisnot uncommon. People in arranged marriages startoff lukewarm, butovertimethey really invest in eachotherand in generalhave more successful relationships. They are moreinvestedin thedeep commitment tothe relationship, rather thanbeing personally investedin finding asoul mate,which can tend to leadto the “Isthere something betterout there for me?” mentality. ANALYZING OUR OPTIONS Even before decidingto go onadate,ourways of analyzing our options are getting brutal. As a woman in L.A. toldme about the floodof options she saw asan online dater, “It’s fun,but it also opens upthis door tobe more andmore andmore picky andanalytical. I was exchanging messageswith a guy,and he mentionedthat he listensto Kevin & Bean inthe morning. And itwas like, okay,you’redone.” One radio-show choice had killedany chanceof this relationshipprospering. Somewherethat guy is sitting alonein his carlistening to Kevin & Bean, staring at his last conversationwiththis womanand wondering, Where did it all go wrong? Of course, these kinds of deal breakersend upmaking their wayintothe picture even if acontenderdoes makeit to a first date. “One ofthe problems with thefirst date is that youknow very little about a person, so you overweightthose few things thatyou do know,” the anthropologist and dating guru Helen Fishertoldme. “And suddenlyyousee they’vegotbrown shoes, and you don’tlike brown shoes, so they’reout. Ortheydon’t likeyour haircut, so they’re out. But if you were to getto know each othermore,those particular characteristics mightbeginto recedein importance, as youalso found theyhad a great senseof humor orthey’d love to go fishingin theCaribbean with you.” OUR BORINGASS DATES How do we go about analyzing our options?On dates. Andmostof thetime, boring-ass dates. You have coffee, drinks, ameal, gosee amovie. We’re all trying to find someonewhoexcites us, someone who makes us feel likewe’vetruly made a connection. Can anyonereach thathighbar on the typical, boring dates we allgo on? One of the social scientistsI consultedfor this book is theStanford sociologist Robb Willer. Willer saidthat he had severalfriends who had taken dates toa monster truck rally. Ifyouaren’t familiar with monstertruck rallies, basically these giant-ass trucks, with names like Skull Crusherand The ReJEWvinator,* ride uphuge dirt hills and do crazy jumps. Sometimes they fly over a bunch of smaller cars or even school buses. Even more nuts, sometimes thosetrucks assembleinto agiantrobot truck that literallyeatscars. Notjoking. It’s called Truckzillaand it’sworth looking into. Frankly, it sounds coolas shit,and I’m looking at tickets for the next oneIcanattend. This is a monster truck that goes by the name Grave Digger. If you are a thug or gangster, please note that Grave Digger’s graves are dug exclusively for trucks it is in competition with, and it does not dig graves to hide bodies from the authorities. Anyway, for Willer’s friendsit started as a plan to do something campy and ironic, sincethey weren’t big car andtruck fans so muchas curiousaboutthis interesting and kindof bizarre subculture. It turned outto be agreatdate event: fun,funny, exciting, and different. Instead ofthe usualboring résumé exchange, thecouples wereplaced inan interesting environment and gotto really get a sense oftheirown rapport. Two ofthe couples he mentionedwere still together and happily dating. Sadly, anotherone of the couples was making outin a smallcar thatwassoon run over and crushedby a monstertruck named King Krush. Very unfortunate. In one ofoursubreddit threads we askedpeople to tellus abouttheirbest first dates, and itwasamazing to seehow manyinvolved doing things that are easy and accessible but require justa bitmore creativity than dinnerand a movie. One gentleman wrote: I took her to an alpaca farm after she said she thought they were the cutest thangsss. After sweet talking the farm owner, he let us walk into the barn where all the lil guys overcame their initial trepidation and then surrounded us in the most adorable way possible. After nuzzling with them for an hour, we went to Taco Bell. I burned myself horribly on an apple empanada, but it got her to laugh so I’ll chalk that one up as a win. I was 18, the whole date cost about $7, and I got her to smile a bunch, so yeah, that was great. Here’s anotheranimal story: His parents both work in media, and every year he goes to the Westminster Dog Show at Madison Square Garden and finds his way backstage through a combination of walking with a purpose and flashing media credentials his parents help with. Talk about impressing a first date! We then bought wine, which they served out of sippy cups, and made a drinking game out of the dog show. (Take a drink every time a dog jumps when it’s not supposed to, and so on.) Dating aside, I’m definitely playing a Westminster dog show drinkinggame ASAP. That sounds fun! Andhere’sone that involved themosttypical activityimaginable,but with asimple wardrobe twist that transformed everything: It was just dinner and drinks . . . I showed up to the restaurant and he was in a FULL beekeeper’s suit, just sitting/chillin’ at the table waiting for me. It was THE total ice breaker. I laughed so hard (in an endearing way.) The staff seemed confused and some people at neighboring tables were laughing. One guy, about my age, asked if we were on a reality show. We talked about his bees and honey and the little honey business he’s starting up. He even brought little honey samples for me to try! HAHA! (And I did, and it was delicious.) We had a great dinner and great conversation. He told me he was having a great time and asked if I wanted to go for a drink sometime, I said sure. He pulled out his phone and texted me at the table, “hey, are you free for a drink tonight?” I found that so sweet and silly, I texted him back and we totally went for drinks. Now, granted, I’m not saying thatweshould all showup ondates wearing beekeeper suits. The dates thatare notboringare notall super eccentric things. The common thread is that they weren’tjust résumé exchanges over a drinkor dinner; theywere situations in which peoplecould experienceinteresting things together and learn what it was liketo be with someonenew. THE EFFECTS OF NONBORING-ASS DATES Thereis social science that shows thatmoreinteresting dates like this canleadto more romantic success. In their famous1974 study called “Some Evidence for Heightened SexualAttraction Under Conditions ofHigh Anxiety,” ArthurAron and DonaldDutton sentan attractivewoman tothe CapilanoRiverin Vancouver, Canada.4 Theriver runs through a deepcanyon,across which weretwobridges. One ofthe bridges—the control bridge—wasverysturdy. It was constructed of heavy cedar, had high handrails, and ranonlyabout ten feetabove the water. Thesecondbridge —the experimental bridge— was much, much scarier. It was madeof wooden boards attached to wire cablesand had a tendencyto tilt and sway. The handrailswere low, and if you fell,it was a two-hundred-footdrop onto rocks and shallowrapids. Of the twobridges, only the second was, neurologicallyspeaking, arousing. Theresearchers had the attractive woman approachmenas they crossed each ofthe bridges. She then told the men she was doinga psychologicalstudyand asked if they’dtake abrief survey. Afterward, she gave the men herphone number and told themto call ifthey had any additional questions about theexperiment. The researchers predicted that menon theshaky bridge wouldbemore likely tocall, asthey might mistake their arousal, actually causedby fear, forromanticarousal caused by attraction to the woman. Sureenough, more menon theshaky bridge madethe call. Must have been a bummer for those dudes, though: “Hey, Sharon? It’s Dave from the bridge study. I know this may sound weird, but I was wondering . . . would you like to grab a cup of coffee or something sometime?” “No, David. Sorry, this isn’t Sharon. This is Martin. I’m a lab assistant. This was actually also part of the study. We wanted to see if you’d be more likely to call Sharon if you were on the more precarious bridge, and you were! This is great.” “Oh,okay .. . Do you know how to get in touch with Sharon?” “No. I don’t. This is the decoy number we gave all of you guys. Man, she is something, though, huh? [long pause] All right. Thanks again. Bye, David.” “Bye.” [sad] Aron published another study,titled “Couples’ Shared Participation inNovel and Arousing Activities and Experienced Relationship Quality” (damn, dude, shortenthe namesof your studies!), wherehetooksixty couples who weredoing okay and had them (a)participate in activitiesthat were novel and exciting (e.g., skiing, hiking), (b) participate in activities that were pleasant/mundane (e.g., dinner, movie), or(c) participate in no activity (this was the control group).5 Thecouplesthatdid the novel andexciting activities showed a significantly greater increasein relationship quality. Now, manyof you are probably thinking thatthis directlycontradicts astudy citedby Keanu Reeves’s character at theend of the film Speed. “I’ve heard relationshipsbased on intense experiencesneverwork,” he says. “Okay,” replies Sandra Bullock’s character, “we’ll haveto base it onsex, then.” I’m not surewhere Keanu’s character, Jack Traven, got his information, butif you trust thatAron and his colleaguesaren’t bullshitting us,it seems like participating in noveland excitingactivities increases our attraction to people. Do the datesyou usuallygo on lineup more with the mundane/boringor the exciting/novel variety? IfI look backon my dating life,I wonderhowmuch better I (and the otherperson) would havefaredif I haddone something exciting rather thanjust geta stupiddrink at alocal bar. Somaybefor your next date thinkit through and plan it out perfectly. Instead ofdinner at a nice restaurant, go to dinner at anice restaurant but hire someactors who can do solid Germanaccents to show up and fake an eighties Die Hard–style terrorist takeover ofthe place tocreate the danger effectseen inthe shaky-bridge study. Then, after you narrowly escape, go outside andsee that the road you have totake is super hilly and very dangerous. That’s when yousay, “Maybe we should takemyride.” You point her to yourcar—that’s right, themonster truckGrave Digger. Afterthat, you ride home, where youleap over dozensof cars and shoot fire fromthe sides of your tires. Your datewillbeexcited in no time. MORE BORING-ASS DATES? Thequality of dates is one thing, but what about the quantity? When thinking about thatquestion, I recalled achangeI madein myown personaldating policy at one point. While I was single in NewYork,the cityof options, Ifound myselfand a lotof my friendsjust exploringas many options as we could. There were alot of first dates but not as many third dates. Wewere consistently choosing to meet asmanypeople as possible instead ofinvesting in a relationship. The goal was seemingly to meet someone who instantlyswept us off our feet, but it justdidn’t seem tobehappening. I felt likeIwas never meeting people I really, really liked. Was everyone shitty? Orwas I shitty? Maybe I was okay, butmy dating strategy was shitty? Maybe I was kind of shitty andmy datingstrategy was kind ofshitty too? At a certain pointI decided tochange my dating strategy as apersonal experiment. Iwould invest more inpeopleand spend more time with oneperson. Rather thango onfour differentdates, what ifI went on four dates with one person? IfIwentout with a girl, and the date felt likeitwasa six, normally Iwouldn’thave gone on a second date. Instead, I wouldhave beenon myphone textingother options, trying tofind that elusive first date that would be anineor a ten. With this new mentality, Iwould goon asecond date. What Ifound is thata first datethat was a six was usuallyaneighton the second date. I knew the person better and we kept building a good rapport together. I discoveredthings about them thatweren’t initially apparent. We’d developmore insidejokes and just generally get along better, because we were familiar. Just casually dating many people hadrarely led tothis kind ofdiscovery. In the past I hadprobably been eliminating folks who could havepossibly provided fruitfulrelationships, short-orlong-term, if I’d justgiven them more of achance. Unlike my enlightenedfriend in Monroe,I justhadn’t had enoughfaithin people. NowI feltmuch better. Instead oftryingto date so many differentpeople and gettingstressed out with textinggames and the like, I was really gettingto know a fewpeopleand having a better time for it. After doingthe research for thisbook and spending time readingpapers with long-ass titles like “Couples’ SharedParticipation in Novel and Arousing Activitiesand Experienced Relationship Quality,” Irealizedthe results ofmy personal experiment werequitepredictable. Initially, we are attracted to people appearanc quicklyre things tha for someo more uniq usually th during su In a f published Personali Psycholog Texaspsy        CHAPTER5INTERNAT INVESTIGA OF LOVE hen Idecided to write this book, one of the thingsI reallywanted to explore was how W the different issues in modern romancemanifested themselves in other countries. My interestin this startedone night when Iwas doing stand-up in asmall club in New York. I was talking about textingand I askedfor a volunteer who’d met someone recently and had been texting backand forth with them. I readthe backand-forth messagesof one gentleman andmade jokes about how we wereall dealing with some versionof this nonsense. I quickly noticed that one womanseemed very puzzled. I askedher why she lookedso bewildered, andshe explained thatthis was something that justdidn’t happen inFrance,whereshe was from. This kindof backand-forth simplydidn’texist, she claimed. I asked her, “Okay, well, whatwould a guy in France textyou, ifyoumet him at a bar?” Shesaid, “Hewould write .. . ‘Fancy afuck?’” AndI said, “Whoa. What wouldyou writeback?” Shesaid, “Iwould write yes orno depending on whetherI fancied oneor not.” I was stunned—that kind ofmakes so much more sense,right? Internationally,there’s a huge variety of dating cultures that havetheirown quirksand dilemmas. Our interviews in Doha were interesting and mademe excited about thepossibilities ofresearchingdating in other cultures. Obviously, we couldn’t study allof them, so Eric andI had tobe very selectiveabout where we went. After alot ofdebate, the placeswelanded on were Paris,Tokyo, and Buenos Aires. ThereasonforParisis obvious. It’s thecity of love, blah, blah, blah. Also, relationshipsin Paris are similarto whatwe’dread about in otherEuropean countries, wheredating aswe know itin America is not really part ofthe culture. People hang out in groups of friends, and if they want to starta relationship with someone, they just do it. They are also a bitmore casual about sex andhave a different attitudetoward infidelity,as we will seein the next chapter. Tokyo was the next place I suggested. This was done lessin the interestof thebook and morein the interestof me enjoying some delicious ramen. However, after discussing the idea with Eric, we realized Tokyo was a great place togo because Japan is goingthrough a crisis of sorts. Marriage and birthrates are inahuge decline,many youngpeople are showing alack ofinterest in romance,and also, again,I loveramen. It was clear Tokyo was agreatchoice, both for thebook—and our tummies.* While Japan is experiencinga declinein sexualinterest,wealso wanted to see theother extreme, so we went to explorethe romantically aggressive culture ofBuenos Aires. There’s a good reason thatBuenosAires is often calledthe world’s best city for dating.1PDA isrampant. People aredancing insweaty clubsuntil eight ornine inthe morning. Sex is everywhere you look. Sothere’s our itinerary. While we couldn’tgo everywhere, these placesall provided a uniquely interesting takeon modern romancearound the world. Okay,let’s go. Firststop, Tokyo! TOKYO: THE LAND OF HERBIVORES AND TENGAS My initialthought wasthat Tokyowouldhave a highly active dating scene. It is a boomingmetropolis, throbbing with life and energy, arguably evenmore so thanNew York. You have everything—the tastiest restaurants,the coolest stores, and the weirdest stuffthat you can’tfind anywhere else in theworld. Anentirevideo arcadefilled with nothing but photobooths? Yep. A vending machine that grows and sells freshheads of lettuce? Yep. A restaurant with adinner show where bikini-clad dancersridein on huge robots and tanks?What else do you thinkgoes down at the RobotRestaurant in Shinjuku? THE ROBOT RESTAURANT IN TOKYO. SERIOUSLY. This is a real place. What the hell is happening in this picture? It appears that three Asian women are dancing on three giant Asian women robots. Too meta? Those people in the photo sure do seem entertained. Plus, I’dheardrumorsof “lovehotels”—which are whatthey soundlike:hotels specifically built for hooking up. But, of course,this being Japan, they sometimeshave really amazingdecor— there’s evena Jurassic Park– themed one. Seriously,this exists. I amnotjoking. NOTE: There were no photos available online so this is an artist rendition commissioned by me for the book. I hope the rooms are this cool and you get picked up from the airport in a tricked-out JP Ford Explorer from the nineties. At nightthe neon signs turn thecity into an adult adventure land: The streets, bars, andclubs areraucous and busy. Something fun and interesting is lurking in every nook andcranny. Youcan wander ontothe third floor of an officebuilding and findan amazing high-end cocktail barbehind onedoor,a record storebehind another,and past the hallwayabizarre nightclub filled with Japanese menwearing Bill Clinton masksgiving back rubsto dogs. Walkthrough many of the big neighborhoods often enough, and youare boundto stumbleupon alittlehidden cornerwithsexstores andthe aforementioned lovehotels— which are actuallynice,clean hotels thatrent by the hour and areused bycouplesto pop in anddo their thing. Upon first glance, the city closest toTokyoin terms of dating infrastructure would seem tobeNew York. I also assumed thetechobsessedJapanese were probably on the next levelof dating websites andapps. Thesepeople invented emojis, for god’s sake!They weretexting andthey thought, Yeah, this is great, but it’d be really dope to be able to send a small image of a koala bear too.* Who knew whattheir textingback-andforthwould look like? I couldn’t wait to doour interviews andsee what kind ofstuff was going on. It allseemed ideal for the perfect datingcity, but I could not have been more off. Allmy assumptions were wrong. Start doing even the slightest research into Japan and love, and you’ll quickly find sensationalarticles describing a full-blown crisis. According todemographers, journalists, and even the Japanese government, it’sa hotpotato. Sorry,I needed another word for “crisis,” and when I entered theword “crisis” into Thesaurus.com, itsuggested “hotpotato” asasynonym. I could not write thisbook without lettingyou knowthat Thesaurus.comlists “hot potato” as asynonym for “crisis.” “Hey, did youhear about what’s happening withIsrael and Palestine? It’sbecoming areal hot potato.” Anyway, backto Japan. You read thesearticlesand theyare justfilled with panickylanguage: “No one’s fucking!” “No one’s getting married andhaving kids!” “Youngpeople aren’t interestedin boning anymore!!” Those aren’tdirect quotes,butthat’s pretty much whatyouread. It sounded alarmistto me. Youngpeople are just not interested in sex?! How could thatbepossible? Let’s bust outsome scary-ass statistics. •In 2013 a whopping 45 percentof women agedsixteento twenty-four “were not interestedin or despised sexual contact,” andmore than aquarterof men feltthe same way.2 I’ve always wanted to describe a statisticas “whopping,” and I thinkwecan concur, this is indeed whopping. Seriously, read those numbers one moretime. Despised sexual contact. •Thenumberof men andwomen between eighteen andthirty-four who are not involved in any romantic relationship with theopposite sex has risen since 1987, from 49 percentto 61 percentformen andfrom39 percentto 49 percentfor women.3 •Awhopping one thirdof Japanese people under thirty havenever dated,4 andin a survey of those between thirty-fiveand thirty-nine, more than aquarter reported that they’d never had sex.5(Okay,that was thelast “whopping” I’ll use.) •Almost half of Japanesemen and onethird of women in their early thirtieswere still single as of 2005.6 •In 2012, 41.3 percentof married couples had not hadsexin thepast month,the highest percentage since thefigures became availablein 2004. Therewasa steady riseoverthe previous tenyears, from 31.9percent in2004.7 •Japan’s birthrate ranks 222nd outof 224 countries.8 A report compiled with the government’s cooperation two years ago warned that by 2060the number of Japanesewillhave fallen from 127 million to about 87 million, ofwhom almost40 percent will be sixty-five or older.9 This last stat is particularly alarming. The Japanese arelegitimately worried about runningoutof Japanese people. Nomore ramen?? Nomore sushi??No more high-endJapanese whiskeys??! Yousee how this is really a hot potato. Thesituationhasreached apoint where eventhe government has seen theneed to stepin. Since2010 the Japanese state has paid parents a monthly allowance ofbetween$100 and$150 perchild, totake someof the financialburdenout of child raising. Butbefore you can havea kid,youneed to find someone toloveand marry, right?Japanese prime minister ShinzoAbe allocated $25 million in the2014 fiscal budgetforprograms designed to getpeople to pair off and havebabies, including government-fundeddating services. An officialsurvey conducted in 2010showed that66 percent of all prefecture governments and 33 percentof city/ward/town/village governments were implementingsome form of marriage support. Even more do so today.10 We asked theJapanese American sociologist Kumiko Endo, who studies the new “marriage support” programs thatthe Japanese government has established, to give us someexamples. In Niigata Prefecture, she said, “marriage support events include tours(e.g., bustour to nearby shrine),cultural events(e.g., cooking classes), sports events, and seminars (coaching sessions formen while fishing).” Saga Prefecturehassetup a Departmentof Connection thatfixes up singleswho wantto meetnew people, and both Shizuoka and Akita prefectures now provide Internet communication servicesforsingles, whom theyinform about various parties andevents for singles, someof which aresupported by the government. Finally, FukuiPrefecture recently launchedanonline dating site calledthe FukuiMarriage-Hunting Café, andcouples who meeton the siteand marryreceivecashand gifts. Thegovernment is sending Japanesecouples wedding presents? Whaton earth ishappening there? Learning aboutthis crisis —and rememberinghow much I was fiendingfor authenticramen and allthe other delights of Tokyo—it was clearIneededto hitthe ground myselfto find out whatwashappening. Contemplating the sexual crisis in Japan while wearing a kimono in Kyoto . . . THE HISTORY AND CURRENT STATE OF MARRIAGE IN TOKYO Beforegetting intothe currentsituationin Japan, it’s important to understandthatJapanhas alsoseen a largeshift in how adults view and pursue the institution ofmarriage. My sociologistfriend Kumiko explained to methat up untilWorld War II, arranged marriages were more common than anyother formof matrimony. Evenin the 1960s approximately 70 percent of all marriages were set up by families. Inthe 1970s theworkplacebecame aprime site for findinga mate. Largecompanies would organizesocial gatherings, and cultural norms dictated thatmostwomen wouldquit their postsafterthey married and starteda family.11 Today, however,that systemisa relic. Arranged marriages are uncommon (downto 6.2 percentas of 2005).12 Likethe United States, Japan has adopted a more individualisticculture based on personalchoice and happiness. The Japanese economy has been sluggish since the1990s, and the modern workplace has become a site for stressful competition. It’sno longer acting asa de facto singles barforprofessionals. So, ifthe old systemis now broken, what has replaced it? HERBIVOREMEN After arriving inTokyo, I knew I had a limited amount oftime todo what I neededto get done:visitthe five bestramen shops in the city. After eating myfillof ramen, it was time to get down tobusiness:visiting thatrobot restaurant, because, man, who could pass up an opportunitylike that? Then duty called: I also had to visit thatBill Clinton mask/dog back-rub place. It was awesome. Then aquick nap, and finally I starteddoing someresearchforthis book. First we organized some focus groupsto discuss dating in Tokyo. Dozens ofyoung adults in their midtwenties and early thirties spoketo us (or,in most cases, spoke to Kumiko, whotranslated their Japanese). Going in, one ofthe notionsI was mostcurious about was the “herbivore man.” This is a term thathas become ubiquitous in Japan over the pastfew yearsto describe Japanesemen who are very shyand passiveand showno interestin sex and romantic relationships. Surveys suggest thatabout60 percent of malesingles in their twenties andthirties in Japan identifythemselves as herbivores.13 In the first groupwe held, one ofthe first to arrive was Akira. A good-looking youngJapanese dude in a really sharp suit, Akira, thirty, lookedlike he was probably doingwell for himself. He seemedlike a successful, confident young man. This guy wasn’t an herbivore, right? We didinterviews and focus groupswithsingles on fourcontinents, andin most ofthemwebroke theice by asking people totell us how many people they’d asked out orflirted with on their smartphones in the pastfew weeks. When we askedAkira thatquestion, he just shrugged. Prettymuchall the guysshrugged. Akira said hewas working now and toobusy to havea girlfriend. Several others we interviewed echoed this sentiment. “I justgota jobin construction and there aren’t manygirlsmy age, so there’s nowhere for meto meetthem,” saidDaisaku, twenty-one. His friend Hiro nodded. “I’m busy with workand it’s notveryurgent. I have to deal with work first, andthat takes up my weekdays. I play video gameswhenIgo home. On the weekendsIhangoutwith Daisaku andwego out drinking.” “Can’t youmeetwomen when you’reoutdrinking?” we asked. “No.” Hiro blushed. “It’s charai [kinda sleazy, in a playboy way] to try to pick up a womanyou don’tknow. But also, ifa girl said yes tome,I wouldn’t wantto goout with her. I don’tlike girls who would wantto be with a guyopenly likethat. Looking, smiling, winking. I want agirlwho’s seiso [pure].” “Pure?” Eric asked. “Like, avirgin?” They laughed uncomfortably. “Not exactly,” Daisakusaid. “But it has tobesomeone with the rightbackground, with the rightfamily. Ifit was someone Ijust met somewhere,I’dbe too embarrassed to tell my parents. They’d be disappointed.” “Howdidyour parents meet?” “At work,” Daisaku said. “An arranged marriage,” Hiro offered. “This situationseems really difficult,” Ericsaid. “You wanta girlfriend, and the women we meetwant boyfriends,but noone knows how to make it happen. Do you feel like it’sa problem?” “I don’treally think anything about it,” Hiro repliedmatter-of-factly. “It’s nota problemand it’s not not aproblem. It is whatit is. Because everyone’s like that here. Idon’t eventhink about it becauseit’s thenorm.” Akira said that he would only ask a woman out ifit was clearwithoutany doubt thatshewasinterested. When asked why, he said, “She could reject me,” and every other guy in the roomliterally groanedin support. It was clearthat thefear of rejection was huge,and much moreso thanI’d seen among men in America. I asked the women about the herbivore menand whetherthey wished guys wouldtake more initiative. It was aresounding yes. These womenyearned for the men in Japanto step up and just ask them out. From their perspective,the men’s extremeneed for assurance and comfort fromthe women was irritating. Their frustration was palpable. You could seethat they were indeed becoming what the press called “the carnivorous woman.” Someof these womendescribed how they wouldnow takethe role more commonly played by Western menand approach Japanese menand ask for phone numbers. Wow, how charai of them, Ithought,remembering the wordI had learnedthree minutesearlier. However, they said it wasn’t always easy. They describedhow even if they didmeet a guy and engage with him,it was likeaneven more nightmarish version of the American guy who just keeps texting anddoesn’t ask agirlout. The textswould keep going andgoing. “He will just beso shy and hejust needs to feel soooo comfortable with you,” onewoman said. “Unless menare really confidentthat the woman likes themback, theycan’tmake themove,” anotherlamented. As one mandescribed it, “They’re waitingforthe womanto be totallyembracing of them beforethey make anykindof move.” Thefear of rejection even manifests itself in the phone world. I asked foranexample of aback-and-forth text. A womantoldme about one guy whohad texted with her. The way she described it was thathewasneverreally flirtatious. It would bevery direct, impersonal things about movies he’d seen or his pets. One night he texted her and said, “Ihave thisbig head ofcabbage. How shouldI cook this?” I asked if this was maybe avery, very lame,roundabout dinner-date invitation—to ask herto comeoverfor cabbage. “No, he was really asking me how to cook cabbage,” she moaned. Thesame guy e-mailed hera few days later with this gem, and again, this isnota joke: “I recentlygotmy futon wet and putit outside to dry, butit gotcaught in therain, so now it’s wet again.” Wow. Quitea suspensefultale. What begattherise of the herbivore man? There seems to be an almost perfect stew ofsocialand economic ingredients that hascultivated this stereotype. Speaking ofstew, while in Tokyo, I went to an izakaya calledKanemasu that had anamazing short-rib dish, one of themost succulent—okay, sorry, gettingofftrackagain. Social scientists argue thatthe herbivoreman emergedwiththe decline of the Japaneseeconomy. In Japanese culture,as in many cultures, men’s confidence and sense of self is tied to their professionalsuccess. Everyonewetalkedto in Tokyo seemedto recall the boomingeightiesas a differenterafor romance, with salarymen,flushwith cash,whocouldconfidently approachapretty womanand ask for hernumberwithout fear. This too is probably an exaggeration, but a telling one. With career jobsnow gone,it’s not only harderfor mento meeta partner but also harderfor them to support herfinancially. So it makessensethat insecurity mightleave menfeeling more scaredof rejection. Manysinglemen also now liveathomewiththeir parents wellintotheir twenties andthirties. The womenin the focus groups feltthat this situationonly worseneda mothering complexalready prevalent in Japanese culture. Aman who lives athomecanexpecthis mother to cook, clean, and do his laundry for him. The theorygoes thatguys areso used tobeing takencare of, theylose their manly instincts. On top ofthat, menin Japan areprobably not as comfortable around women in general becausethey didn’t grow up spendingas much time with them. Much of the educational system in Japan is singlesex, and there’s also sex segregation inco-ed schools. Physically,socially, and to someextent psychologically, boys and girls grow up on separate tracksuntil at least high school andoftenuntil college. Manypeople don’tdate until their twenties. Nearly 50 percent of the single guys in Japan don’t evenhave friends ofthe oppositesex.14 Whenyoucombinethe economic decline,men’s infantilizationby their mothers, theirfear of rejection, and the lackof contact with the opposite sex throughouttheirlives, the herbivoreman starts making alot of sense. Now,I don’twant to paint the picturethat every Japanese guy is a super shy dudewhohas no interestin sex. There definitelyseemsto be alotof that, but there are also plentyof Japanesemen who are nonherbivores, who havedating lives that resemble those ofthe typical omnivorous American man. Inourfocus groups we met Koji,a young bartender, who seemedto be themost omnivorous of the bunch. Thething is Koji wasn’t somesuperstud oranything. Compared with theother guys, hewasa little shorter. He wasn’t dressed in a super sharp suit like Akira andthe other professionals. Hewore agrayvest and a brown fedora. What he hadwasa casualness and forthrightness to him that,thoughfairly normal by American standards, really stood out in Japan. Those inthe focus groupswhoknew Kojispoke ofhis seeminglymythical lovelifein hushed tonesand werein awe ofhis confidence. Again,Kojiwas notsome Asian RyanGosling figure; he justseemed tobe comfortable with himselfand notparticularlyshy. Like most fedora wearers, he hada lotof inexplicable confidence. He and another friend of his wanted tomakesure we knew therewere some Japanese men who weren’t herbivores and thatmaybethe media was blowing thisoutof proportion. “Can I just speak for real?If I don’t havea girlfriend, I can gofind someone tohave sex with. I think those guyswhosay they’renothaving sex for a long time? I thinkthey’re bullshitting. They justdon’t talkaboutit,” hesaid. “Ifyou’resingle inNew York, you get on your phone and text people lateatnight and try tomeet up with someone. There’s awhole cultureof a ‘booty call.’ What’s theprocess here?” I asked. “My friends and Ido the same thing. Icallall ofthem and no onewill pick up.” “Well, thesame thing happens inNew York sometimestoo,” I said. Atthe same timeJapanese men are undergoing a transformation, a newkind ofJapanesewoman is emerging as well. Historically, educated women wouldget office jobs after university, meetmenthere, and then leavethe jobto become wives and mothers. Now women arepushing back, andmore educated womenwant towork. They learn skills, like speaking English. They travel the world. Theypursue careersof their own. Theseprofessional womendon’t want to conformto the old normof being thesubmissive woman who abandons her own career ambitions tobea housewife. However, beingeducated, speaking English, andhaving agood jobseem to intimidate somemen, with somewomen even describingtheir success asa “turnoff” for their would-be suitors. “Men here, they havehighpride,” one woman told me. “They don’t wanta successful woman who makes apretty good salary. The minutethey findoutI’m bilingual, they’relike, Oh no . . . ” By theend ofourfocus groups, itwaspretty clear thatJapanese menand womenareon different trajectories. Women arestill farfromequal, butthey are beginningto establish themselves in the Japanese economy and they are gaining all sorts of rights and privileges in theculture as well. Men arestruggling to hold onto their status. Whetherin the workplaceor in thefamily, they’ve fallen fromthe heights of previous generations andare having trouble figuringoutwhat to do next. Some areclearlyso confusedthat they havetaken to wearing fedoras. A difficultperiod indeed. A RICE COOKER ASA PROFILEPIC: WELCOME TO ONLINEDATING IN JAPAN Giventhestateof Japanese datingculture, you would think online dating would be a perfect solution. Sending a message toa potential mateon awebsiteis much less intimidating than asking someonefortheir number in a bar, right? What better wayto mitigateyour fearof rejection? The Japanese arealsonotorious early adopters. If one-thirdof U.S. marriages are now formed bypeoplemeeting online, you’d guess thateven more Japanesemarriages begin digitally. Butalthough the riseof onlinedating could be very helpful in Japan, alas, it is notto be. The concerns about being perceived as charai (sleazyplayboytype) extend into thesocial media worldas well,and someof the necessary facetsof online dating arefrowned upon in Japan. Considerprofilepictures. Dating online requires self-promotion. A datingprofileis akind of advertisement, a way of marketingyourselfto prospective partners. But this attitudedoesn’t really fit well with Japanese culture. In Japan,posting any pictures of yourself, especially selfie-style photos, comesoffas really douchey. Kana, an attractive,single twenty-nine-year-old, remarked: “All the foreign people who use selfieson their profile pic?The Japanese feellike that’s so narcissistic.” Inher experience, pictures on dating sites wouldgenerally include more than twopeople. Sometimes the person wouldn’tbein thephoto at all. I asked what they would postinstead. “A lotof Japaneseuse their cats,” shesaid. “They’re not in thephoto with the cat?” Iasked. “Nope. Justthe cat. Or their ricecooker.” Let’s do this, ladies . . . “I oncesawa guy posted afunny street sign,” volunteeredRinko,thirtythree. “Ifeltlike I could tell a lotaboutthe guy from looking at it.” This kind ofmade sense to me. If you posta photo of something interesting, maybe it gives somesense of your personality?Ishowed aphoto ofa bowlof ramen Ihad takenearlier in theday and asked what she thought of thatas a profile picture. Shejust shook her head. OH, I GUESS I CAN’T HOLDACANDLE TO THAT STREETSIGN DUDE, HUH? MACHIKON AND GOKON Soonlinedating is not takingoff. What else? There is atraditional group date calleda gokon, where a guy invites a few guy friends and agirlinvites afew girlfriends,and thegroup goes out for dinner and drinks. Buteven at these gatherings womenreportthat most guysare tooshy to ask for their numbers. For an exchange tohappen,the host wouldhave to announce, “Okay,everyone, let’sall exchange numbers.” I actually participatedin a gokon inTokyoonce as part ofa travelpiece for GQ magazine. Unfortunately,the womenthey selected didnot speak English and I was armed only with theJapanese phrase for “Doyou like pizza?” Bythe end of the evening, filledwithdelicious yakitori (grilled meats)and beer, most ofthe women thought I had astoryarc as “IndianChandler” on Friends, andIcould confirm thattwo of them didindeed enjoy pizza. For thosemenwemet who said thatthey were too busywithwork at the moment, gokon seemedlike the most comfortable option for them to explore meeting women. Butthis presents challenges for men who don’t haveany female friends to organizea gokon with. A newer trend for meetingpeople is machikon. In machikon men andwomen pay to participate in a huge, roving party filledwith hundreds andhundredsof singleswhowander througha neighborhood’s bars and restaurants. At some machikon mostpeople go solo; at others partygoers begin theevent bysharing a mealwiththe oneor two friendswhocome with them, aswell as with afew strangersof theopposite sex; after thatthe organizers move people around,musical chairs style, andparticipants wind up mingling with lotsof other singles. What’samazing about these events is thatboth the private sectorand the Japanese governmentarenow subsidizing the establishments that hostthem. According toKumiko Endo, the sociologistwho showed us aroundTokyo and studies machikon for herdissertation, barand restaurant owners get twenty-five to thirty-five dollars per seat thatthey give to theparties. In allthe research I’ve done on dating, Ihaven’t heard ofanother placewhere the stateis throwing money into the singles scene, effectively buying a few drinksforeveryyoung person willing to goon theprowl. Thus far the public investment inthese events is modest, butit’s a signal of how seriouslythe government viewsthe marriage drought and of how much it will take to reinvigorate the matchmaking market. THE RELATIONSHIP REPLACEMENT INDUSTRY: EGGS, PROSTITUTES, AND SOAPLAND For a lotof the herbivoreesque guys we spoke to,it still seems like itwouldtake quitea lotto overcome the hurdle ofshynessto properly engagein these groupdating activities. There were also women who weren’twillingto settle for the restrictionsthat come with traditionalmarriagesand families. Like women in the United States andEurope and an ever-growing number of other places, they wantto haverewarding work lives and careers too. The problem in Tokyo is that people who aren’t interested in or capable ofenteringa traditional romantic relationship don’t havethe alternative ofan activecasual dating culture likeyou may find in New York. Luckyforthem, Japan has notonly ahugesex industry but also what some havedubbed a “relationship replacement” industry that provides everythingfrom “cuddling cafés” (where clientspay for thingslike pats on the head, eye contact, and ear cleaningwitha Q-tip) to full-on sex robots thatare built tolastfor years.15 I never thought I would say this, but ofthose two things, havingsexwitha robot seems likethe more reasonable option. Themostpopularkind of establishment inthe relationshipreplacement industry is the hostess club, which is basically thelatest variation ofalong-standing Japanese business tradition where mengo toa nicebartypeatmosphere and pay womento provide intimate personalservice ina romantic butnotexplicitlysexual way. The women arelike modern-day geishas: Theylight the men’s cigarettes, servethem drinks, andlisten attentively to their conversation,doing more or lesswhat an ideal Japanese wife orgirlfriend woulddo.16 Lotsof men stop by theseclubs after work, either alone orin groups. To be clear, though, this doesn’t lead toany sexual contact. No nudityor sex happensat hostess clubs. It’sbasically likeprostitution,butthey just hang outwithyou. I was very confused. Al, ayoung expat originally fromBaltimore, tried to explain the motivations. “It’s like, I’m lonely, I’m scared of people,” he said. “I need to vent or just have a drink with someone who will listen to me and not judge me. They’re payingfor the security. They’repaying notto be rejected.” Women alsogo tohost clubs, which providethe same service: outgoing men who converse andhave drinkswiththem. Again, this does not lead to sex; it’s purelyforcompanionship. Thesewomen arebasically payingto hangoutwith nonherbivoremen fora while. But what about sex? Prostitutionof thepenis-intovagina sort isillegal in Japan, and whilethere is a black market, theJapanese have also developed some creative legalalternatives. Onethatis quite popular andcame up severaltimesin our focus groupswasSoapland,where aguylieson a waterproof mattress anda woman covers them both in soapy water and slides alloverhim. You can pay extra foradditional serviceslike oral sex ora hand job. Soapland, which is justa ridiculousword,does notcarry ahugestigma. (On aside note, Iwould give pretty muchanything to have been in the room where the guy said, “I’ve gotit! We’ll call it . . .Soapland!”) Some men told us ifthey wentoutin groupsof friends, it wouldn’t be absurd for one dude to be like, “Okay, I’ll catch you guys later. I’m goingto hitSoaplandreal quick.” Again,it seems that, beyondthe sexualpleasure, Soapland is providing a safe outlet for rejection-free romantic exploits. Why go to anightclub to try tofind casual sex andriskrejection when youcan go toSoapland and be100 percentsure a womanwillplaceyouon a waterproof mattress, cover you in lubricant, andthen slideup and downyour oiled-up body? And of coursethereare straight-up illegal prostitutes. Whenwepushed this topic, we were surprised at how prostitution seemed much more commonand acceptedthanin the United States. One participantina focus groupwasa teaching assistantata local university, and hetoldusthat his college students often talked to him about their trips tovisit prostitutes. It didn’t seemto be abigdeal to him. The students might as well have said that theywent toget ice cream after class. Now, admittedly,there are noperfect dataon how often men go to prostitutes in differentcountries. Butthe best statistics we could find showed thatroughly 37 percent of Japanese men have paidfor sex at least once, compared with 16percent of Frenchmen, 14percent of American men, and 7 to 9 percent of British men.17 For thosemenin Tokyo who aren’t into Soapland and brothels, there aresexshops everywhere, andthey caterto every fetish imaginable, from Frenchmaidsto girls in school uniformsto anime characters. There’salso abooming marketin sex toys, which are soldwithno stigma attached. Oneof the most popular recent inventions is the Tenga. What’s a Tenga? If you go on the company’s website,you’llsee what mightbethe greatest slogan ofany corporation ever: “The futureof masturbation . . .is NOW.” Thecompanyspecializes in masturbation devices like the egg,a single-use silicone egg that men fill with lubricant andmasturbate inside. When you’re done, you sealit up and throwit away. Fun fact:One of the directors ofthe Tenga Corporation, MasanobuSato, holds the world recordforthe longest time spent masturbating: nine hours and fifty-eightminutes. That meanshecould have watched all three Lord of the Rings films ina row while masturbating, and as the credits of The Return of the King finishedrolling,he’d stillhave had forty-one minutesof masturbating to do. This also made me realize: The only thing sadder thanholding the record for longest masturbation is realizingyoulost it to someone else. “Sorry,man, he just jerked off fora few minutes longer. Better luck next year.” Noneof thenews articles thatdescribed thelack of interest insexin Japan really delved into thiswhole world ofstrangesexualalternatives, and when you learn about it, it doeskindof explainthe alleged “lack of interest” in sex. Theherbivore sector is interestedin sexualpleasure butjust not interestedin achieving it through traditionalroutes. In their eyes,it seems,if you’re so mortified at the thoughtof rejectionby a woman, why notjust jerk off inanegg and call ita day? Atthispointyou are probably wondering:What was my topmeal inTokyo? Well,it’stough to say. I really enjoyedSushisho Masa,a high-endsushi restaurant. However, I also really enjoyedthe tasty tempura I hadfrom the working-class vendorsin Tsukiji Market. Andof course therewasthe ramen. Tobe honest,the food scene in Tokyo was way easier tounderstand than the singlesscene. It’s hard to figureoutwhy sex and relationshipshave changed so dramatically, so quickly, and why so many people have turnedinward—stayinghome alone, playing video games, orhangingout incatcafés— rather than reaching outfor oneanother. On my last nightin Tokyo,I decided to keep an open mind andbuya Tenga. Everystage ofit was a bummer. I went into a convenience storeand hadto say, “Do you guys have Tengas?” The lady gave mea sad look andpointed mein the right direction. AsI paid, I smiled and said, “Research for abook project!” Itdidn’t seem toconvince herthatI was cool. Instead, she’s probably convinced I’m doingsome very bizarrebook called Masturbating Across the Globe: One Man’s Journey to Find Himself. WhenI gotback tomy hotel room, Iopened the thing up and gave it ago. I was kind ofexcitedto seeif it really was masturbation taken to thenextlevel. Masturbationatthe current levelfeels prettygood, so maybe thiswouldn’t be bad? Again, no. The experienceof using an egg-shaped masturbation device was both odd and uncomfortable. The thing you put your thinginto was coldand weird. Itfelt likeIwas masturbating with a thick,cold condomon,and I didn’t understand theappeal. But ina symbolic sense the Tengaseemed tobean alternative to casualdating and sex. Itwasa way to avoid putting yourself out thereand havinganactual experience with anotherperson. Say whatyouwillaboutcasual sex and the substanceand qualityof that experience, but the morecasual encounters I had in myown periods of singledom helped me grow as aperson and brought me toa place tobe ready to havea serious relationship. It also mademe realize the true valueof that sortof connection andbetter understand theadvantages and disadvantages of a serious relationship. Dating has its downsides,but itcan be alotof fun. Even when it isn’t,whenyou’remeeting other people there arealways experiencesthat you remember and learn from. No matterwhathappens, you get a lotmore outof it thanyoudo from blowing your load into a coldsilicone egg. BUENOS AIRES: THE LAND OF CHONGOS AND HISTÉRICO After our trip toJapan, I got interested inseeing whathappens in a dating culturewheremen are more omnivorous. Ericand I searched aroundfor the world’s particularly aggressive dating scenesand decided a good placeto go was Argentina. IfTokyois the capital of the “herbivore man,” then Buenos Aires must surely be thecapitalof the “rib eye–eating maniac.” Whetheror not they deserve it, Argentine men havea globalreputation for their hot-blooded, romantic passion,whichoften bleeds over into something pathologicaland scary. In 2014 a survey conducted bya nonprofit organization called Stop StreetHarassment revealed that more than 60 percent of women inBuenos Aireshad experienced intimidation from men who catcalled them.18 Toa lot of menin Buenos Aires, women’s concern cameas a surprise. When askedabout the survey, Buenos Aires’s mayor, Mauricio Macri, dismissed itas inaccurateand proceeded to explainwhy womencouldn’t possibly havea problemwithbeing shouted at by strangers. “Allwomen liketo be told compliments,” hesaid. “Those who say they’re offended arelying. Even though you’ll say something rude,like ‘Whata cuteass you have’ . .. it’sall good. There is nothing more beautiful than the beauty of women, right?It’salmostthe reason thatmen breathe.” Tobe clear, thisis the mayor. Uponreading this quote, I investigated, and I can confirmthat at thetime ofthis interview he was not wearingone ofthose helmets thatholdsbeers andhas strawsthat goin yourmouth. As youcan imagine, these statementsdidn’tgo over well. Hundreds of women—including the mayor’s own daughter— condemned Macri’sremarks, forcing him topublicly apologize. Amongmenin Buenos Aires, however, Macri’s opinion probablyisn’t uncommon. In Argentina, where Eric andShelly, a sociology graduatestudent, spenta month doing interviews andleading focus groups, hitting onwomen with abandonisdeeply ingrained inthe city’s cultural traditions. Men are expected to be pursuers in what Argentines casually refer to as “the hunt,” and theprimary arenaforsuch pursuits isthe street. In Buenos Aires the streets arefilled with sexual energy:There is sensual tango dancing, chamuyo (flirtatious chitchat) and varioussexual quips are heard leftand right, and people make outpubliclyin parks,restaurants, andon buses. In Japan awoman would be surprised to bedirectly approached, butin Buenos Airesthe womenwe interviewedsaid thatbeing the object of unsolicited male attention was adaily occurrence,and many men werereluctanttotake nofor an answer. “Guys here, they don’tcare if you turn them down or denythem,” one womantoldus. “They just keep talking toyou.” Talking is the least of it. Manyof thewomen we interviewedtoldusthat Argentine men can be uninhibited in theirpursuit of sex. In onememorable focus group, a womannamed Tamarareported thatmen she’d just met had kissed her, touchedher leg, andtried to slip theirhands up herskirt despite herclear lack of interest inthem, and that when she told them to stop, theyresponded as if frustrated and asked, “Why?” As she told the story, every other womanin thegroup noddedto showtheir familiarity with thissituation. “That’snormal,” one explained. “WhenI go out andI get approached bya guy, no matter if I say I’mina relationshipand ifI’m not interested, they stillkeep on going,” said another. “They’ll say, ‘Is yourboyfriendhere rightnow? Do youlive with your boyfriend?’ It’s, like, totallyacceptable. As much asyou say, ‘no, no, no,’ they get closer andcloser into your face.” Rob, a twenty-eight-yearoldexpatfrom NewYork, tried to explain this behavior to us during a focus group. He said theattitudes in Argentina were much differentfrom the “no means no” culture ofthe United States. “Here,if [women] say no, they’re interested. If they’rereally notinterested, theyjust don’t say anything to you. They justcompletely ignoreyou.” So now Rob only keepsclear ifwomen literally turn their backto him. On his reading of courtship inBuenos Aires, “no” is usuallyjust a prelude to “yes.” Youcan seehow much trouble this couldgenerate. In our focus groupsbothmen and women said itwas common for a propositioned womanto playhardto get and then, only after the man had made a sufficient number ofattempts,finally agree to a date. Many woman attributed this farce toa need to keepup appearances. Ifthey responded too quickly, they mightappearcheap. “I havea friend who told me lastweek thatshesaid no afew times to a guy she actually liked before saying yes justto playhardto get,” onewoman explained. “It was justto makesure thathe wanted something seriousand to not be taken for an easy girl.” Sexually,too, women describeda fear ofappearing tooeager. “We womenknow thatif we havesexon thefirst date, then it’s over,” said another. Argentine womenhave plenty of ways of signaling their interesttosuitors,butas in theUnited States,men tend to initiatecontact. Women sometimesapproachmen, but most ofthose we spoke with said they thought men found aggressive women aturnoff. “I thinkthey love thechase,” said Sara. “Wheneveryou’re forward, it’slike, Whoa—why is she after me?” Theuseof technology in Buenos Airesmirrors the streetculture. There’sa level ofaggression that Americans justdon’t hit. Emilio, a twenty-ei the Unite he’d take friendsof Facebook out. Edua he messag womena makingso He’d hit t Facebook anywhere Desp                      CHAPTER6OLD ISSUES, NEW FORMS: SEXTING, CHEATING, SNOOPING,AND BREAKINGUP The adventof smartphones and the Internet meansthat our romantic livesnowinhabit twoworlds:the real world and ourphoneworld. Inthe phone world we havean unprecedented,highly private forum for communication that forces us to dealwithage-old issues likejealousy, infidelity, and sexual intimacy in newformatsthat we’re stilltryingto figure out. SEXTING Of allthe changes in modern romance brought onby the phone world, the most radical hascomein the form of sexting: the sharing ofexplicitsexual imagesthroughdigital media. Conceptually, sexting is a timeless phenomenon. Nude photos, erotic letters, and the likehave beendocumented throughoutcivilization. While something like the Anthony Weiner scandal seems unique to our time, thereare precursors, such as the salaciousloveletters written by U.S. presidentWarren G. Harding to hisneighbor’s wife,in which he nicknamed his penis Jerry and her vagina Mrs. Pouterson. I wishI had been there when the historian analyzing the letters hadthe eureka moment: “Hey,wait a second. Whenever he says ‘Mrs. Pouterson,’ Ithink he means . . . his neighbor’s wife’s vagina??” Most strangeto me is that, whereas “Mrs. Pouterson” is a horrible nickname for avagina, “WarrenG. Harding” is actually a great nicknamefor apenis. Whenit comesto photographs andvideo, our abilityto capture ourselves has evolvedwiththe technologies. Consumer film cameraswere great for capturing high-quality images,but they hadtheir disadvantages. Unless you had your owndarkroom, you had to drop off thefilm to get developed,soyour privacy wouldbecompromised. Betweenthe 1970s and the mid-1990s, Polaroids and low-costvideo cameras allowed peopleto produce sexualcontent ontheirown and keep it private, but sometimesa kid wouldopen up a box labeled “DON’T OPEN” and getscarred for life. Digitalmedia, the Internet,and—most important—the riseof smartphones, changed all that. Today almost everybody has aremarkablyhigh-quality camera and videorecorder withinarm’s reachatevery wakingmoment. In addition to having ahigh-tech way to capture theimagery, you also havea seemingly private place tostorethe imagesfor yourself andyour partner, but, like the box that says “DON’T OPEN,” sometimes it falls into the wrong hands. Thekey difference, though,is the ease of use and distribution. Inthe past, we can safely assume, most men weren’tmailingPolaroids of their penisesto girls theymet at bars. Itwould havebeen creepy andalsoabit ofa hassle. However, when a high-res camera isliterallya fewinches from your penis at all times—andyou can instantlyshare theglorious photo—it’s a gamechanger. We don’thave any numbers on therates at which sexualimageswere shared priorto the smartphone era, butthe numbers now are staggering. Sexting, especially amongyoung people, isn’t quite yet the norm, but it’squickly getting there. Herearesome of the best stats on sextingthatwecould find: •Halfof eighteen-to twenty-four-yearolds have received sexts. •One thirdof older teenshave sent a sext. •Sextingis increasing among allagegroups— except fifty-five andolder. •You’remorelikely tosext if you own a smartphone. •People who own iPhones are twice as likely tosextas people who use Androids. •Themost popular time tosextis Tuesday between 10:00 A.M. and noon. Yes, we looked this up twice. Strange! •People who are married or in committed relationships are justas likelyto havesent sexts as their unattached peers.1 Whydo people sext?The main reasonswe discovered are toshare intimacy with a partner, to build sexual attraction,to appeasea partner, and,in somecases, to maintain intimacy over long distances. Thetechnology journalist Jenna Worthamdid a piece on sextingwherethe subjects each forwarded Wortham a sext they’d sent andthen let herinterviewthem about it. “WhatI discovered,” Wortham wrote, “is that sexting—like anything else done on our phones—was mostlyjust meant to befun, for fun,grownfolksdoing whatgrownfolksdo.”2 People she interviewed had allkindsof goodreasons for sexting, andtheir comments,seentogether, actually make it seemlike a healthy and compellingway to sustain a modern erotic relationship. One twenty-seven-yearoldeditor sexted herhookup because itgave herafeeling ofpower. “It’skindof a control thing,” she explained. “I wanted tomakehimwant me.” D, athirty-year-old artist,said she sexted with her fiancé to spicethingsup. “We havealreadyseen each other’sbodies alot, and we will be seeingthema whole lotmore,” shesaid. “Sosometimes eroticismcan comefromwhat is unseen,or presenting somethingin a differentway.” M,a brandmarketer, sent herboyfrienda picture of her breaststo helphimcope with acase of nerves before a presentation atwork. This ismy favorite. I just lovethe ideaof the guy opening up hisphone,seeing the boobs, andthinking, “Ahhhh. Okay, you gotthis, Phil!Let’s nailthis PowerPointpresentation.” On our subredditone womangave awhole slew of reasonsfor whyshe’dsent sexts in the past: “Becauseit feels goodto know someone wantsyoufrom far away. because it’s something to think about. becauseit boosts confidence. because i’d never done it before. becauseiliked them. because i’d justbroken up with someone . ..” For sometheprivacy and distance providedby the phone worldallowedthem tobe more honestabout their sexuality. “Istarted because I’mavery sexual person andsexting was an easier way for me todiscuss intimatethings with my partners,” saidone female useron our subreddit. “I foundit hard to ask for what I wanted orneededin the bedroominperson so this way was easier for me to discuss my needsand fantasies. Nowit’s become something Ienjoy, like a formof foreplay. I like to send somethingsexy to my matebefore we’re going to seeeachother.” Another womanwrote: “A guy I hookedup with a fewyears ago used to ask meforpics all thetime. Finally,because I feltlike Imight lose him(. .. it was not ahealthy hook-up relationship), I got into it. I LOVED it. Ijust feltsuper sexy takingthem, and I still feelgoodlooking at them now. Plus, oneday, myboobs will be down around my waistand it will be niceto remember.” Manyof our subreddit users saidsexting provided a forum to maintain intimacy over long distances. One woman wrote: I’m a girl who lives in the U.S. and my boyfriend lives in Wales. I would say we sext at least once a week. When it’s a long distance relationship like that, and we have to go 2-3 months without seeing one another, I think it’s almost a necessity. I want to keep him interested and excited. Since we had only been together a short time before he went to Wales, we hadn’t really discussed our likes/dislikes in the bedroom. But through sexting we were able to express that and get it all out in the open. So the next time we see each other we will already know the others’ desires. If you asked me a year ago, I would’ve felt “dirty” if I was sexting, but now I’m totally for it in a relationship. Another user explained: I think in general it would be much harder to maintain an exclusive long distance relationship without the technology in general. Just being able to communicate on gchat or via text during the day and actually see each others faces while we talk every night is a pretty necessary part to maintaining our intimacy and our relationship. The sexting is just a nice way to spice things up without actually being present. Theconclusion was clear:Withoutsexting, these relationshipswould be much harderto maintainand might noteven last. Sexting provided aneffective wayof copingwitha well-established and often heartbreaking dilemma:how to love someonewhen they are very far away. Thesame technologythat affords us the luxury and privacyto share these intimate moments is also, sadly, whatallows us to betrayour partner’strust onamassive scale. Themainreasonpeople givefor whythey don’t sext is thatthey’re afraidof being exposed. One woman reported, “I’ve never sexted and Idon’t thinkI everwill. The thought ofit seems hot and exciting, butthe possible consequences areterrifying. Ifthe relationshipgoes south and he’s stillin possession of the pictures, then who knows where they’dend up. It just looks likeanavoidable, unnecessarysituation.” We didhear some nightmarestories that would confirmthis viewof sexting. Onewoman who was initially reluctantto sext tellsuswhat happenedwhenshegave in: My boyfriend wanted to, I was uncomfortable with the idea but he begged and dropped the “if you love me you will” line. Said some stuff back and forth. I wasn’t really sure what to say. He asked for a picture of me fingering myself. I obliged, then started getting texts from random numbers calling me things like “nasty slut.” Turns out he was at a party, passing his phone around and showing people what I sent. Utterly humiliating. That was years ago, and I haven’t sent another sext since. Sending aphoto to someone who could turn aroundand be pure human garbage, likethe person above,is a widespread fear. And,althoughin theory everyonecould be exposed this way,in reality therisks affect womenin avery differentway from men. In 2014 private nude photos ofvarious female celebrities leakedonto the Internet after hackers posted them onthe4chan website.* The images wereclearlymeantfor these women’s partners and wereneverto be shared. While the hackers who stole the photoswere condemned, the women whohad their photos stolen were scolded too, forbeingreckless. “Don’twantyournude photos leaked? Don’t take any!” wentatypicalresponse. Taking naked photos of yourself with your iPhone, the argumentwent, was indulgent, vain,and immature. The implication was thatregular, sexually healthy peopledo notsext, despite the abundance of evidence tothe contrary. Of course,not everyone agreed with this narrative, but it was stilla popular argument. Thefearof thiskindof condemnation was another reason people gavefornot sexting, butmany ofthe younger womenwe heard frombelievethatthe prevalenceof sextingis already changing the perceptions of these risks. Onetwenty-four-year-old told us thatshesees something empowering in her sexting andhasdecided that, if her nudes wereleaked, she wouldn’tbejudged for it. The warnings about sexting (mainly directed toward women) center around the worst-case scenario—your nudes being posted publicly, like on a revenge porn site. This is presented as something that will follow you for the rest of your life and haunt your career and future relationships. I don’t think that will happen to me, but if it does, I like to think the viewers will draw the obvious conclusion—that I am a sexually confident woman who made a video for someone she cared about. If someone I knew saw the images and judged me negatively for making them, I feel confident that the problem is with them, notwith me . . .So when I sext with my boyfriend, the main goal is to get us off. But it’s also my little way of reassuring myself that I decide what to do with my body, and I get to decide which risky behaviors are worth taking. This viewis becoming quite common amongyoung people, particularly teens. For the generationthat grew up in asmartphone culture,sexting has become a common step in the journey toward becoming sexually active. Along with a first kiss, now,atsome point, there isoften afirst sext. Whenthe journalist Hanna Rosinexamineda high school in centralVirginia where rampant sexting and promiscuous image sharing sparked a police investigation,a surprising number ofthe kidsshemet expressed confidence that the situationwasno big deal.3 Whenan officer questioned somegirlsabout their concerns aboutthe photos beingdisseminated online, he was shocked when oneinsisted, “This is my life and my body and I can do whateverI wantwithit,” while anothersaid, “I don’t seeany problemwith it. I’m proudof my body.” Some girls,hediscovered, had takennakedphotos of themselves specifically for sharingon Instagram. The idea that this should be treated with shame or that it wouldcome backto haunt them seemedabsurd. Regardless ofhowyou or any officer sees the risks and rewards of sexting, it’s becoming more and more of a common practice. And,as we’ve seen with other aspects ofmodernromance, what seems insaneto one generation oftenends up being thenorm ofthe next. CHEATING Of course, sending naked photos is not the only sexually chargedbehavior thatsmartphones enable or makeeasier. Consider infidelity. In the past, men and women who were cheating couldflirt only in person or over alandline. People would have codes: “I’ll letthe phone ring twice, thenhangup. That’ll be your signal to goto the window, and there you’ll see azip line. Take the zipline down to the treehouse andI’ll meetyou there at 10:30 P.M.” Nowyoucanbe in bed with your spouse andask, “Hey, honey, what are you looking at onyour phone?” Shecould reply, “Oh, just readingthis op-edin the Times,” when she’s actually sending your neighbor a photoof herMrs. Pouterson. Have allthe increased romantic options and the technologyto access themled to morepeoplestraying?I remember reading the Anthony WeinerFacebook messages. Seeingthe way he was justmessaging random womenalloverthe country and watching themessages quicklyescalate from innocuous toverysexual was unbelievable. This isa transcriptof a chat sessionhe had with one ofthese women, a lady named LisafromLas Vegas.4 Weiner andLisa, sorry to bringthis back, guys, butitis fascinating: For me, themost offensive part was thathe used theword “wackadoodle.” Also, did you catch that sly, almost subliminal, blinkand-you-might-miss-it allusionto sex? It was when she said they could havemad, passionate sex. That last message basically signaled a shift in their Facebook chatand opened thefloodgates for all sortsof sexual messages and infamous penis photos. What fascinates me most, though,is that this is something that simply could not have happenedthirty years ago. Sure, he might havestill wanted tosexually strayfromhisrelationship, butthe privacyof Facebook, the ease ofaccess to potential people to cheat with,and the abilityto flirt with cautionvia the mediumof chat—that perfect stormfor temptation is undeniably a new development. Given the sensitivity of the subject andthe potential judgmentthat wouldoccurin an in-personfocus group, we used theprivacy of the Internet to gain insightinto people’sreal-world experienceswithcheating and socialmedia. I posed these questionsin our subreddit:Has anyone started an affairor cheated on someone through social media? Ifsocial media didn’t exist, wouldsomething like this have happenedanyway? One gentleman saidthat he started a relationship through a socialmediasite. It initially began asharmless chattingbut, likethe Weiner chat, over time it escalated. Though not asaggressive as the Weinerchat,it started gettingflirtyand the two began sharing theirinnermost feelings and problems. It certainly wouldn’t have happened without social media, as my wife had successfully cut me off from most of the non-family women in my life. I don’t necessarily see it as a completely bad thing either—without my talking to the other woman (and the sort of honesty that relative internet anonymity provides), I wouldn’t have realized just how fucked up my relationship was with my then-wife, and the numerous things that I always thought were normal, and were really her doing her best to control every aspect of my life, and generally make me unable to leave her. Another user saidthat he started an affairthat he simplywouldn’t havehad the gumption to startwithout Facebook. They worked together and were casual acquaintances. One day he lookedher upon Facebook and senther a message asking, “Would you liketo get a drinksometime?” Soon after thatthe affairbegan. “IfFacebookdidn’texist, I doubtI would have gathered the courageto ask her directly. It madethe initial step that much easier,” he said. Theadvantages of technologythat facilitate regulardating (such asthe easeof accessand the absence of the pressurefound in an in-person interaction) also transfer over to cheating. This includes theease of escalation, which,when engaging in somethingas scandalous as cheating, is quite valuable. With messages you can slowlytest the waters ofpotentially startinganaffair. Onceyou find out the otherperson ison the samepage, it can ramp up very fast. Oryoucaneasily backpedalwithoutquitethe same level ofembarrassment you’dexperienceif it had happenedin person. Here’s an example: Theother person may think you area creep,but either ofyoucanjust act like it was a misreading of the message. In the Weiner situation, phrases like “gota night plan for us?” and “make me an offer i can’t refuse” allowed himtosafelytestthe watersand see if Lisa was really interested in something sexual. Also, theprivacy of our phones means we have a new place tofoster and grow clandestinerelationships. In the past, people who wanted to engage or flirt with someone outsidetheir relationshipwould haveto sneak away to a remotebar or restaurant to reduce therisk ofbeingspotted byfriends or loved ones. Today,with proper precautions, our phones provide a private refugethat can house intimacy thatno oneelse is privyto. In one focus groupa gentleman told us he once started innocently texting with amarriedcoworker and it eventually turned into a full-on clandestine relationship. Normally they had no reason to chatbeyond the office. One day the guy sent a jokey textwhenhesaw something that reminded him ofsomething he andthe womanhad laughedaboutat work. She responded and a fun,witty banter took hold. Theseinstances increased in frequency, and soonthe twowere alsospending time together after work. Eventually both parties caught feelings, andit developed into asecret relationship, with themarried womanconstantly sending texts to this otherguy in secret. The texts were getting so frequent thatthe guy had to change thewoman’s contact info inhis phone so asto notarousethe suspicion ofothers, who might wonder why this married lady was textinghimsomuch. Instead ofgetting textsfromSusan, it lookedlike he was getting texts from a malefriend named David. IfIever was texting frequently with someone and wanted to make an alias, I think I’d go with “Scottie Pippen.” Thenany friends who werepeeking at my screencouldbeleft wondering whyI was texting with the formerChicago Bullsstar on the reg. I only hope Scottie Pippen’s wife never has an affairwheresheuses the same strategyand theguy texts whileScottie is in the roomand he can see her screen. ScottiePippenwould likely believe itwas an impostor Scottie Pippenfrom anotherdimension,sent to steal his wife andkillhim. The psychologicaldamage inflicted onpoor Scottie Pippenwould be far worse thandiscovering a simple affair. Back to ourreal situation: Eventually both parties decided itwas bestto end the affair. Butagain, wouldthis kind ofthing have takenoff if thesepeople hadn’thad theprivacy oftext messages tointroduce a romantic elementinto their relationship? She was married and I respected that. I wouldn’t have made a voice call to say little jokey things to her. It would have been weird. Since it was just texting, it seemed pretty innocuous. But as it went on, we both couldn’t help but realize, there was a spark between us. When you’re both on your phones, you have this safe zone that no one else can break into. It was this private little world where we could talk about all the stress and confusion and love that the whole dilemma was creating. If it weren’t for text messages, I’m not sure anything would have started between us. Some people weheard from, however, feltthat ultimately technology doesn’t turn us into philanderers. If you’re gonna cheat, you’re gonna cheat, they said. Social media orno socialmedia, in the end it’s two people together in theflesh. “I don’tthink that someone who is otherwise a faithful partner in a relationshipisgoing to suddenly startcheating because someone sends them awinky facein an IM,” said oneuser on the subreddit,in the thread’s most popular post. “I’d say itmakes it easier tocheat, butdoesn’t makeit harderto be faithful.” But even if itdoesn’t lead tofull-on cheating, socialmediapresentsnew problems andtemptations, even forthe faithful. Besides offeringprivacy, socialmedia also presents us with a forum where other potential partners are constantly ondisplay. Onegentlemanrecalledhow, when he gotintoa new relationship, social media such as Instagram provided an outlet toview allthe optionsoutthere. I love my girlfriend, but when we were first getting serious, I would go on Instagram and see all these hot girls. And its like, ‘Whoa should I be dating these girls? Or just settle down and be in a relationship?’ It felt like the opposite of ‘out of sight, out of mind.’ They were in sight and IN my mind. Theprivacy of the Internet andphone world has also ledto the riseof settings where people can be adulterous without any judgments. The mostwellknownexample is Ashley Madison, aterrifyingly popular online dating website thatis designed specifically to help people haveaffairs. The company’s motto is “Life is Short. Have an Affair.” Thecompanyenrolls its full-paying members inthe “Affair GuaranteeProgram,” which offersa fullrefund if theydon’t findsomeone withintheirfirst threemonths on the site. Thesite’s home pageoffers users a click-through icon thatlets them “Search andChat with MarriedPeople in Your Area,” as wellas a blog and Twitter feedfeaturing advice such as “How to Getand Keep a Fuck Buddy” and news items suchas “MenNot Botheredby theIdea of Wives’ Infidelity.” Apparentlyit’s growing quickly, from 8.5 million membersin 2011 toaselfreported 11million members in 2014.5 Now, Iknow thatpeople havebeen cheating on each other for as long asthey’ve madepromises tobe monogamous andthat, to date, there’s no hard evidence thatthe Internet is making people more likelyto commit infidelity. Thatsaid, it’s impossible to imagine something like Ashley Madison getting this popular this fast in a worldwithout digitalmedia. Whether ornot we’re cheatingmore often, it’scertainly easierto do. BREAKING UP IN THE PHONE WORLD Another thing that’s becomeeasier because of modern technologyis breakups. Not long ago breaking upwithsomeone required an emotionally wrenching face-to-face conversationor, at the least, a phone callin which the person who wanted toend things hadto own up to their feelings and,usually,explain themselves too. Generally the breakupconversation also required being thoughtful about theotherperson’s feelings and vulnerability, and doing everythingpossible to say thingsthat wouldboost the morale ofthe person being jilted. This iswhyourculture developed lines like “It’s not you,it’s me” and “I’mjust notreadyto be ina relationshipnow” and “I’m sorry, I justwantto focuson mydragonart.” Of course, noone liked these conversations. But we all saw them as obligatory, because they werethe decent humanthing to dofor another person. Todaya growingnumber ofpeople, and amajority of younger adults,are more likely tobreakup with someone by text, instant message, or social media than in personor byphone. According toa2014survey of2,712eighteen-to thirty-year-olds who’d had a relationshipend during the previous year, 56percent said theyhad broken upusing digitalmedia, with texting being themost popular method(25percent), followed closely bysocial media (20 percent),and then e-mail (11 percent), which people usedbecause it let them “fullyexplain their reasons.” By contrast, only 18 percent hadbrokenup through a face-to-face interaction, anda mere 15 percent hadsplitup with a call.6 Astartling 0.0014 percent hadbrokenup by hiring ablimp that said, “Tammy I thinkwe need to seeother people.” (Note: I think this was just one dude named Philfrom Indiana.) Themostcommon reason people gavefor breaking upvia textor social media was thatit is “less awkward,” whichmakes sense given thatyoung adults do just about all other communicationthrough their phones too. Oddly, 73percent of thoseyoung adults—thevery same oneswhosaidtheyhad brokenup with otherpeople via text orsocial media—said theywould be upset if someone broke up with them thatway. Tobe clear, the study above didn’tspecify how serious these relationships were, so itdidn’taccountfor how the lengthor intensity of the relationship affected the preferredbreakup method. Obviously there’sa huge difference between breaking up with someone after three weeks and after threeyears. Infact,the anthropologist Ilana Gershonhasfound many youngpeople in casual relationshipswould actually preferto be dumped bythese lesstraditionalmethods.7 On thesubreddit we asked peoplehow they felt about thenew ways of breaking up. A lot ofpeople who responded acknowledgedthat they’d brokenup with their partners via text orsocial media to avoid stress andconflict. One womanexplained: “I didn’t haveto look at his face or hearhis voice, so Icouldbe completely honest with him. He was asweet guy butI wanted to moveon.” What’s interesting here— butalso kind ofscary—is that she’s saying texting allowed herto be more honest, because she didn’t feel compelled to sugarcoat the reasonsshewasending things. Maybetexting means we’ll stopgivingthose nonsensical “It’s not you,it’s me” messages and become more direct instead. At thesame time, most stories seemedto paint a pictureof someonewho was using modern messagingto avoid confrontation rather thanfurther honesty. This includedmany people who broke up in thisfashion in relationshipsthat were far beyondthe casual point. Severalusers shared stories likethis: It was a normal day. I was supposed to meet the guy I had been seeing for two years for brunch. I drove to the place and he wasn’t there. I called him an excessive amount of times to no answer. I went home. I got on Facebook and there he was on Facebook chat. He says, “Hey, I’ve been thinking about us and I keep going back and forth on whether or not I want to be with you :/” And that was it. I was overall surprised and couldn’t believe that was the way he decided to end it, even know [sic] I had seen him the day before and was supposed to see him that day as well. I did make him call me to clarify the situation after this, which made it worse of course. Haven’t spoken to him since for obvious reasons. It was brutal to read. After two yearsthe relationshipwasendedwitha “:/,” noteven a fully fleshedoutemoji. There weremany more stories likethis, with passive-aggressive nonbreakups thatactually ended things waymore obnoxiously, and painfully, thana face-to-face conversation. Ending things by changing their status on socialmediawithouttelling their partner isanother way people break upthese days. Onewoman told us: “In college myboyfriendbroke up with me by changing his Facebook status tosingle. We gotback together six years later, and thenhebroke up with me over text message. I should probably stop dating him.” If you start dating him againand he says he needsto stopby the “blimp place,” maybe braceyourself to read bad news in thesky. This one is astounding because of the depthof the relationshipthat precededthe breakuptext: Back in June of 2012 when I was 43, my boyfriend broke up w/me via a text message after being together for 8 years! I practically raised his daughter, and had been totally committed to him [and] everything that came w/him. I was really offended and hurt as I felt that I at least deserved to be broken up with in person or at least on the phone! Apparentlythe wound didn’t run toodeep, though, because lookwhat happened next: After 10 months of no contact, his uncle passed away [and] I called him [and] left a message w/my condolences. We finally talked after that [and] eventually got back together. I still love him completely [and] have forgiven him for how things went down. And you best believe I gave him hell for the text! :-) No offense, but at this point let’s take a moment to be thankfulweareneither of the peoplein that relationship. WhenI discussed this topic with people from my generation, theywere shocked tolearn that so many people werebreaking up in this fashion. Theyounger generation has taken another idea that seemedbizarre and madeit into anorm. Is it that surprising, though? If you subscribe toSherry Turkle’s argument that the prevalence oftext-based communications is leading toa decline infaceto-face conversations and the skillsto conductthem, the shift makestotalsense. EXES LIVE ON IN THE PHONE WORLD For those getting outof relationships, especially for the jilted, social media also presents an easy outlet to reconnect withpastloves. We heard many stories of former flames who reconnected over flirty Gchat orFacebookmessages and woundup cheatingon their new partners. But even if itdidn’tlead to cheating, having to see their former love’spresence on social media was toughfor the jilted. “Itmakes itharder to letgo,” one persontoldus. “Even ifyouare one of those unicorns thatcanleave a relationshipwithfriendly feelings and aclean break, your self-controlis tested when all you haveto do is clicka button to see how they are living their lives without you.” Thetemptation to continueto creepon yourex over the Internetis nearly universal. One study found that88 percent of thosewho continued tohave accessto their ex’sFacebookpage said theysometimes monitored their ex’sactivities,while70 percent of people who had disconnected from an ex admitted to trying tospy on the ex’s page by other means, such as through a friend’s account. Manypeople we talked to advocated acomplete “unfriending” on all accounts, butothers thought thosekinds ofsocial media playscreated drama inand ofthemselves. Even ifyoudo unfriendor unfollow, though, it’shardto avoid yourexes. As one person told us: “It gets complicated thelonger you had a relationship with them. Can you block them on Facebook? Sure. Butyou havethe same friends, or at least befriendedher friends on Facebook. You’re goingto seethemdoing thesamestuff via picturesthat yourfriends post.” Some people have gotten pretty creativeabout howto solvethe problem of the socialmediaex. One nineteen-year-old girlfrom Torontonamed Cassandra Photoshoppedpictures of Beyoncé over herexboyfriend’s faceand put them up on Tumblr. “Ifimagining yourself at your happiestwithBeyoncé doesn’thelp, I don’t know whatwill,” she told BuzzFeed.8 I personally havethought about thisstrategy and decided thatother celebrities mightbegood aswell. Ladies,troublegetting over your man? Why not Photoshop in The Transporter himself, JasonStatham? Fellas, doesit makeyou sad to have thosevacation photos of you and yourlady in Hawaii? What ifinstead you werein Hawaii with the funnestdude ever: Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson? Ladies,are yousadwhen you look backon that romantic dinner with your ex who leftyou foryour best friend?Whatif thatwasn’ta romantic dinner buta stimulatingconversation with Supreme CourtJustice Sonia Sotomayor? Even ifneither you nor your partner is being tempted to use social media to facilitatecheating—since we all knowhow easy itis— there isanother trendthat is seeping into modern relationships: snooping. SNOOPING If social media makes it easier to cheat, there’s no questionthat it makes it a lot easier toget caught. Everyinteraction with someone online creates part ofa digital paper trail. This digitalpaper trail and the knowledge that our partnershave thissecret worldin their phones can lead to what we will refer toas “snooping.” Here’s atip:As you read this section, when the word “snooping” comes up, readit in yourhead with a quiet, sneaky, Aziz whisper voice. It’llmake thesectionmore fun. Try it now. Snooping . .. See? Bothin our in-person focus groupsand onthe subreddit, many people discussed howsecretly viewingtheir partner’s texts, e-mails, and social media led to their findingincriminating evidence thatmadethem angry and sometimeseven ended the relationship. “I brokeup with agirl because of atext Ihad seen on her phone,” someone recounted. “We werein bed and shegot upto goto use the bathroom. After a few moments I heard herphone vibrateon the bed. It was a text. Onthe lock screen was a textfrom her ex-boyfriend thatsaid something along the lines of ‘Are you coming over againtonight?’” “My ex and I both got into abad patternof checking each others phones and it lead [sic] to a lotof trust break downs,” said onegentleman on Reddit. “Most ofthe time there was nothing at all to hide, but beforethe last fight I found outshehad been lying tome about goingto a BibleStudyand instead going to spend time with aguyshe metatthat Bible Study.” Andno, it wasn’t her new bestfriend, Jesus Christ. Sothereyou have it, readers,if yourboyfriendor girlfriend says they are outat Biblestudy—theyare more likely out boning someone from Bible study. Even in instances where someone snooped anddidn’t find evidence of cheating, the act ofgoing throughyour partner’s phone cancreate its own problems. In seeking to makesure that your partner is being faithful, you may inadvertently breach his or hertrust. In our interviewspeople on the other endof snooping had varyingfeelings about being snoopedon. Some didn’t care, because they had nothing tohide anyway. Manysubscribedto the theorythat ifyouleave your accounts loggedon,it’s fair game. But others believed thatlookingatyour partner’s screenis a violation of trust orthat itreveals underlying jealousy issues. Some even said itwas groundsto end a relationship. One thingthat stuck with me, though,wasthat whether ornot yourpartneris actually cheating, these suspicions and the snoopingthat follows can boil into full-blown paranoia thatdrivesyoumad. Snooping . .. (Are you stilldoing thevoice? Just checking!) One gentleman in alarge focus groupheld inNew York described how he caught his girlfriendcheating when herGmailaccount was leftopen. He saw anopen exchange between her andan oldboyfriendand felt compelled to check it based on hisprevioussuspicions. This led tothe crowd of roughly 150 peoplegenerally agreeingwhenIasked, “Soif someone forgets to log out, your attitude is If the shit’s open, I’m reading it?” Shewasin factcheating butagreedto endit with the oldboyfriend. Theyworked through theissue,but itled to adangerousdownward spiral where he kept checking her emails, Gchats, and texts. The girl wouldchangepasswords, buthe would crack them. Sometimes hefound something suspicious,like deleted chats, and othertimes he didn’t. Eventuallyhe foundan e-mail that madeit clearthat therelationship with the old ex-boyfriend was notgoing toend asshehad promised. They then broke up. Whatwasinteresting was thateven though the snooping ultimately helpedhimcatch his cheatinggirlfriend,after thatexperience he felt in futurerelationships hewould never snoop again. Hefelt thatsnooping only led to suspicionand paranoiathat could break thefundamental trust needed to maintain a relationship. His sentiment made sense to meafterItook in all the stories inourinterviews. Somany people we interviewedtoldusthat the slightest glimpse into their partner’s privatephone or socialmediacouldsparkan uncontrollableneed to snoop and read more. Oneflash of an incomingtext ore-mail froma stranger ofthe oppositesexor NBA all-star ScottiePippen is all ittakes to raisequestions. People generally recognizethat most ofthe time there’s nothing to worry about. Even so,it’s hard notto follow the trail onceyou findit. In most relationships,the barriersto our privatedigital worldbreakdown without our realizingit. Asa relationshipprogresses, a couple winds upsharing passwords out of convenience. “Hey, honey, what’s the passwordon your laptop? I wantto listen to that awesome Pitbull song on Spotify!” “My password is ‘Pitbull’!” shereplies. “Wow, that’s crazy!” Nextthing you know, you’re listeningto Pitbull’s hitalbum Planet Pit. Thena Gchatmessage comes up froma guy named Armando.Perez@gmail.com. You think toyourself, Holy shit. Armando Perez . . . That’s Pitbull’s real name! Why is he messaging my girlfriend? Is your girlfriendhaving an affairwithPitbull?Do you readthe Gchatmessage to makesure she’snot? Do you possiblyviolate your partner’s trust just momentarily to putyour fears at ease?It’s a conundrumyou didn’t planon facing, but now youhave to. Snooping or accidentally gettinga glimpse into your partner’s privatemessages isn’t the only way to descend into madness. Simply reading the messagesposted publicly on a partner’s social media is often enough. A womanin one of our focus groupsdescribed gettingsuspicious when anotherwoman was being very activeon herboyfriend’s Facebook wall. “This girl was just constantly writing onhis wall,” she said. “Itwasjust like, Ugh, you know he has a girlfriend.” Shebecame agitatedand decided tocheck his text messages, upon whichshe confirmed he was cheating. Men andwomen also describedpartners getting upsetwhensomeone ofthe oppositesexwas “liking” a lotof Instagrampictures or even seeing certain types of photos. One gentleman we intervieweddescribed how his girlfriend would get very jealous if she saw Instagram photos of him with other girls orother female users liking or commenting ontoo many of his photos. “One time I made the mistake ofliking a photoof this friend of mine in a bikini. Allhell brokeloose,” he said. Theseare notnecessarily new problems. Is a girlfriend gettingupset that youliked an Instagram photo of a cutegirl wearinga bikini anydifferent froma girlfriendgetting upset because you ogled a cutegirl at the beach? Allthe mundane misunderstandings andfights thatwe’vealways gotteninto in our relationships get reinvented inweird and interesting waysin the digital world. One gentleman, Sean, told us atale thatinvolved him gettingsuspicious of cheating due to a glimpseof his girlfriend’s social media at averystressful moment: My girlfriend was in a ski accident. I was in the ambulance with her and she gave me her phone to call her parents. Afterwards, I looked down and I noticed that she downloaded Snapchat. I didn’t really know what Snapchat was. And all that I had heard about it was that it was an app specifically for sending nude pics. So I checked, and there were like eight Snapchats from this one guy whose name I didn’t recognize. And I was furious. But I didn’t say anything. Because she was in a back brace. Which seemed like bad timing. And months later, we threw a party, and I met this dude. And he was gay, which was extremely reassuring. I experienced a version ofthis myselfonce,whenmy girlfriend got upsetwithme dueto Instagram activity. I was taking offfora flight to NewZealand for a cousin’s wedding. Before boarding, I calledher. I got hervoice mail. Itextedher a message saying, “Hey!Takingoff soon. Justwantedto talk beforethe flighttookoff. Gimmea ring.” She wrote back, “I called you four hours ago.” I could tellshewasupset because she alsoincluded the emoji of the Indian guywith agunbeside his head. I calledher back and eventually she answered. I explained thatIwasbusy packingand gettingreadyfor mytrip and that I knew I wouldhave time to talk when I got to theairport. She said, “Oh, so you werebusy packing?Well, I saw onyour friend’s Instagramheposted aphoto of youhangingoutby the pooltaking Polaroids, so I feellike ifyou have time to playwitha Polaroid camera, you’dhave time tocallor text me back.” I simplysaid I was sorry and itwouldn’thappenagain. A week later, though,it was Valentine’s Day. Ipulled outall the stops. It was our first Valentine’s together. I sent her her favoriteflowers at work, along with Fuzzball (a stuffed animal from the Disney Michael Jackson show Captain EO, toremind herof our trip toDisney World) andsome chocolates thatwere thesame typeshe had lovedon a trip we took to Mexico together. Whenshecame tomeet me at homeafter work,I madeher closeher eyes and walked herintoaroom where I hadon oneof her favorite Stevie Wonder records. When she opened her eyes,shesaw glasses ofher favorite wine for the bothof us. Then it was time for the giftexchange. I went first. I said, “Hey, so you remember a weekago you wereupset that I didn’t call you back before mytrip, and you weremad becauseI was playingwiththe Polaroid camera. Well, the reason I was doingthat is I bought you this nicevintage Polaroid camera and Iwasjust making sureitworkedbefore I gaveit to you, so . .. here’s your gift.” Shefelt HORRIBLE. It was thegreatest Valentine’s DaygiftI’ve ever received. HOW PREVALENT IS CHEATING? Fear and suspicionof cheatingaren’t always unjustified. According to nationally representative survey data, inthe United States20 to40 percent of heterosexual married men and 25 percentof heterosexual married womenwillhave at least oneextramaritalaffair during their lifetime,and 2 to 4 percent of all married people are willing totell survey researchersthat they’vehad an affairin the past year. In nonmarriedbut “committed” couplesthereis a70 percentincidence of cheating. Inaddition, 60 percent of menand 53 percent of women confess thatthey’ve engagedin “mate poaching”9 (trying to seduce aperson outof a committed relationship). This isnotto be confusedwithrhino poaching,wheresomeone triesto seduce a rhinoceros into across-species romantic tryst. Or eggpoaching, where someone tries to seduce a deliciousegg into their belly without overcooking it. Let’s take the “best case” cheating scenario. Your partnerof tenor moreyears has had a one-night stand with someone they will never seeagain, they regret it, it didn’t meananything,and theywould never doit again. According to Match.com’snationally representativesurvey,80 percent of menand 76 percent of women would preferthat their partner “confesstheir mistake .. . and sufferthe consequences,” rather than just “take their secret tothe grave.” I asked a lotof peoplein the focus groups how they’d feelabouttheirpartner havinga one-night standwith someone else. Their discomfort seemedto be less about their partner hooking up with someone else—in practicalterms, it wouldn’t change much about the relationship—and moreabout knowing that their partner had been unfaithful. “In theory I’d be okay with it,” said Melissa, twenty-six. “Butactuallyknowing it happened?I don’tthink I could handle that.” As we all saw inthe hit film Indecent Proposal, just because Woody Harrelson thinks he’ll be cool with something doesn’t meanhe will be when it actually happens. Others werenotat all accepting of the hypothetical situation. Formany it would be an immediate relationship ender. One womanwe met recalled a night when she told friends, a couple with a new baby,aboutan extramarital relationshipthat she’d had. Thewifeturned toher husbandand said, “Ifyou evercheat on me,Iam divorcingyouand taking the baby,” then got upand went to bed. And hesaid, “Sounds good tome. Sayonara, lady!” Okay, the latter partof thatexchange didn’t happen, buttheredefinitely were thosewhohad zerotolerance for infidelity, and also marriages thathave ended with someone angrily leaving aroom and shouting, “Sayonara,lady!” FRANCE: MONOGAMY AND MISTRESSES In the United States there’s anoptimistic expectation thatmost peoplewill remain faithful to their partner,but actual data show great numbers of peoplewillnot. As we’ve seen,whenitcomes to sex and relationships,whatwe believe in theory does not line up with what we do in practice. Whenthe New York Times opinion writerPamela Druckerman conducted interviews for Lust in Translation,her book on infidelityaround the world, cheatersin theUnited States seemedto try to distance themselves from their act. “A lotof people Iinterviewed started off bytelling me, ‘I’m notthe kind of person who wouldhave an affair,’” she explained. “And I’dalways think, Of course, you are exactly the kind of person who would have an affair, because there isn’t one kind.” According toa recent survey of attitudes about extramarital affairs inforty differentnations,84 percent ofpeoplein the United States said infidelity was “morally unacceptable.”10 Another poll,fromGallup,found that infidelityismoreuniversally disapprovedof than polygamy, animalcloning, and suicide.11 Soif there weretwo guys at abar, onecheating on his wife and another with a cloned pig named Bootsie, it wouldbethe cheater,not Bootsie the pig, gettingmore disapproving looks. Whenyoucompare this levelof disapproval with the data on the actual prevalence ofcheating,it paints astrange picture. Dowe really believe thatall these masses of people who engage in affairs are immoralmonsters? That’s quite alot of monsters. It seems thatwe often reluctantly accept the act of cheating inourownlives while stillcondemningthe practice at large. Notall cultures condemn infidelitysofiercely. Thecountrythathas by farthe highest tolerance for extramarital affairs is—no surprisehere—France, where only 47percent ofpeople surveyedfound such activity morally unacceptable. That’s good, because Franceisthe country with the highestrates ofinfidelity:55 percent for menand 32percent for women, according tothe latest data.12 The second-most-tolerant nation is Germany, with 60 percent considering extramarital affairs morally unacceptable. Several other Europeannations,including Spain and Italy,are in that range. In contrast,the countries thatrankclose to theUnited Statesare mainlyin Latin Americaand Africa, places likeGhana, Bolivia, and Brazil. Thosewhere disapprovalrates are highest, in theninetiethpercentile, are mainlytraditional Islamic nations inthe Middle East. Seizinganopportunity to eat amazing foodin Paris, I decided totravelto France and try tolearnabouttheir romantic culture. Now, granted, everyone knows France is famously tolerantof infidelity. But there’s a difference between readinga number from a survey of attitudes and talkingto realpeopleabout their experienceswith something as messy as having affairs. We went to France notto verify thatpeoplecheat and feel differently about it fromhowwedo but to find outhowtheirmore open attitudes aboutmonogamy affect their relationships, their families, andtheir lives. We didn’t romanticize theway theydo things there, but we wondered what,if anything, people in moreconservative places could learn from the more lenientFrench approach. During our interviews and focus groups,mostof the Frenchpeople I metsaid it’s natural, ifnotinevitable, to seek sexualnovelty and excitement. They’d stillget angry aboutcheating,butnot in thesame way wedo in the States. Theydon’t judgethe transgression so harshly. “In France, you can bea good guy andstill have affairs,” ayoung Parisian named Lukas told us. “I don’tthink you can be faithful allyour life,” said Irene, twenty-three. “It’s unreasonable tothink you wouldn’tbeattracted to someone else. IfI was married andwehad kids, I wouldn’tgive that all upif he sleptwith someone else.” “Youknow prettymuch everyonehasstrayed,so there’s moreunderstanding when it happens,” said George, a twenty-five-yearoldwho’dlivedin France and in Austria. “In the subconscious ofFrench people is an ideathat everyonecheats,even though in fact noteveryone does.” In Francemostpeople havecome toexpectthat their politicalleaderswillhave affairs, at minimum,and often an entiresecond family too. When François Mitterrandwaspresident, his mistress Anne Pingeot,and their daughter, Mazarine Pingeot,would oftenvisit him at the Élysée Palace, despite the factthat hehad a wife and children. At Mitterrand’s funeralin 1996, his second familysat alongsidehis first family. Politicians aren’tthe only ones who dothis kind of thing. The focus group participants shared tales of other arrangements French couples havethat wouldbe hard to fathom inthe United States. One womantoldus thather uncle used toquietly take thebones from his wife’s meatdishes tofeed thedog of his mistress, and eventually heraunt, annoyedby the charade,simply started bagging the bones for her husband’s mistress herself. WhenI interviewedthe dog about this situation, he told me, “It’s weird, buthey, I’m not complaining. Double the bones, man!” Another woman told us thatin herfamily an older relative would vacation with both his wife andhis mistress,together, taking separaterooms but otherwise doinga surprising amountof stuff together. Themistressthing was very widespread. Themost jarring factIlearned was that on Valentine’sDay the flowershops advertise with the slogan “Don’t forget your mistress!” As I leftthe final focus group, Iran into that dogon the sidewalk. Hesaid: I don’t know, man. I get it in a sense. Their expectations of romantic fidelity are more realistic, but the mistress shit? Seems like men are taking advantage of the women’s goodwill and they are resigned to this demeaning situation. It’s a bummer, minus that whole double bones thing, ya know? I admire the French for embracing honesty and their sexual nature, but there must be a middle ground between unrealistic monogamous expectations and full-on second families. Hey, you don’t happen to have a plastic bag on you, do ya? Why? Noreason .. . CHAPTER7SETTLING DOWN I’veneverbeen a “relationshipguy.” My first serious relationship happenedwhenIwasaround twenty-three andlasted three years. Itbeganwhen Iwas livingin NewYork,but at the three-year markIhad to move to Los Angeles. I was twenty-five. Thegirlwas ready to movewithme to L.A., butit justseemed too much for meto livewith anotherperson at thatageand especially tohave hermove cross-country. We eventually ended things after a yearand change oftrying todo the long-distance thing. I enjoyedbeingin that relationship, but I was also very happy being mostly single between the ages of twenty-six and thirty-one. Earlier we discussed how havinglots ofoptions makes it difficultto settleon the rightperson. That’s areal problem, butthere’s also an upside: With allthese options, beingsingle canbea shitloadof fun! I also had alifestyle that was prettybad for maintaining aserious relationshipanyway. I was constantly shufflingbetween NewYork and L.A. forwork and was unsurewhere my futurecareerwould take me. I hada great time in the casual datingscene, but at a certain pointIgottiredof the work that wentinto maintaining afunsinglelife. Like others we interviewed in the book, thesingleworld had worn me out. At onepoint I was the hopeful romantic who would stay out till 4:00 A.M. every morning, worriedthat ifI wenthome,I’dmiss that magical, amazing woman who showed upatthe barat 3:35 A.M. After many late nights andbrutal mornings, though,I realized thatmost amazing, magicalwomen don’twalk into a barat3:35 A.M. They’re usually inbed by that hour. Usually the men and women who are going outthis hard areless the “amazing/magical” sort and more the “nightmare/train wreck” variety. As I hitthirty, I started to despisethe barscene. I had experienced every single versionof thosenights. I knew all thepossible outcomes, and I knew the probabilities ofthose outcomes. When you hitthat point, you realizehow fruitlesstryingto find love by barhopping can be;youhave enoughdata to knowthat statisticallythe smartest thing for you to do whenyouwalk into abar is goto the bathroom, jerk off, andleave. I also started losing single friends. Oneday I stood aloneata barbecue at myhouseand saw nothing butcouplesaroundme. It seemedlike Iwas the only single dudein themix. Everyoneelse was splitting their racksof ribs into halves and sharing. Meanwhile, I had to eat awholerack by myself like somekind of lonely fatso. I feltlike itwas time for achange. Itwastime to settledown abit. I decided I wantedto at least try havinga relationship. It’d been so long. I started thinking aboutthe advantages. I’d havesomeone whomIreally caredabout, who also caredabout me. No more texting-back-and-forth nonsense. We wouldn’tflake on eachother. I’dalways havesomeone to see amovie with,or goto a new restaurant with,or, asIwould describe my dream at the time, “stay home,cookfood, and do nothing” with. It was fun being single, butI had reached what I will describe asa “point of exhaustion.” I had experienced thispersonally, butwhenI didinterviewsfor the book, Irealizedit isquite universal. At a certain pointthe cost ofthe work needed to maintain afunsinglelifestyle outweighs the benefits. The nights when you have amazing casualsexstart gettingoutweighed bythe timesyouwander home alone wastedand wakeup hungoverwitha half-eaten burrito sitting on yourchest. Theendless stringof first dates where you justsaythe same shitoverand over again in thesame places starts gettingtiresome. The casual scene was fun,butinbetween the fun, alot of timesthere was emptiness. Settling down offers the chanceto fill thatvoidwith the dependable, deeper, intimateloveof a committed relationship. NowI had to find the rightperson. When Iwasout, I tried tokeep an eye out for someone who could be relationshipmaterial. Atfirst I hadno luck,but then I had lunch with a friendwhoput it in perspective. “I want to settledown, butI don’tever meet anyone I really like,” I said. “Well, where areyou meetingthese girls?” he asked. “Bars andclubs,” I replied. “Soyou’regoing to horrible placesand meeting horrible peopleand you’re complaining about it?Live your life likea decent person. Go to the grocery store,buy your own food, takecare of yourself. If you live a responsible life,you’llrun into responsible people,” he said. It made sense. I was staying out likea lunaticand complaining thatI only met lunatics. I realized ifI was goingto tryto find someone to settledown with,I had to change the wayI was going about my search. Instead of bars and clubs, I’d do things thatI’dwanta theoretical girlfriend tobeinto. Iwent to more museums,morefood events, morelowkey/interesting bars at earlier times, and things got better. I made more ofan effort to datefriends of friendsand began accepting setups,in the hope ofmeeting better people who werefiltered through my existingsocial framework. I also decided toreally get to know thegirlsI was dating. As I noted inchapter 4, instead oftrying tolockdown so many first dates, I triedto go on more fifth or sixth dates. A fewmonths later I ran into an amazingwoman whomIhad met years earlier. I hadlikedher then,butshe had been in a relationshipat the time. Shewasbeautiful, funny, and achef!!! Ifyou’ve countedallthe food referencesin this book, you realizewhata great thingthis is for me. We started dating. Prettysoonwewere staying home, cookingfood, and doingnothingall the time. It was great. After a fewweeks it started gettingseriousand I was facedwiththe decision ofwhether totruly settle down. DidI really want a girlfriend? Did I really want to give upthe single life? I thought for sure thatI wanted a relationship, but when this amazing woman foundher way to me, Iwas stillscared. Settling down seemedlike a frightening proposition. I’ve explained howthis is the eraof themostromantic optionsand how,whenyou get ina relationship, youare closing thedoor onallof them. Beingsingleisa lot of work, but soare relationships. There were the inconveniencesof my touring schedule andthe giant hurdle oflongdistance(I was going back to L.A. andshelivedin NewYork). EventuallyI decided to divein. Todaywelive together in L.A. andcookfood anddo nothing ona regular basis. She’s amazingand I’mvery happy inmy relationship,but makingthe decision to divein was tough. And it’stough for many singles outthere. FEAR OF SETTLING DOWN, FEAR OF SETTLING Whentheopportunity to settle downpresents itself, the glamourof the single lifeand allthepotential options loom overour heads. The continuingfear many singles expressed in our interviews was thatby getting into aseriousrelationship, theyweren’tsettling down butsettling. In today’s romantic climate, many people are plaguedby whatwe willcall “the upgrade problem.” Singlesconstantly wonder whetherthereis a better match,an upgrade. This was especially prevalent in largercities. In walkingcities likeChicago and Boston, peopledescribed how it was hard to settle down becauseeverytime theyturned a corner, they saw more attractive and hypothetically interesting people. As one woman told us, “For guys andgirls equally .. .there’s just so many people. And there’s someone around thecorner or uptown ordowntown who you mightlike justa fraction better than the personwho’s across from you rightnow.” Even without being ina walkingcity, we allsee way more faces inthe digital world. And ina strange way, all thefaceswe see inthe worldor evenon socialmedia feellike realoptions that we are closingthe door onwhen we settledown. Have you everaimlessly browsed aroundon Instagram?It can be likegoing downa rabbit hole: clickingon friends, friendsof friends,people who’velikedthose friends’ photos. You seephotos ofall these beautifulpeople. You take a look at a fewphotos of someone’s feed and you can begin to get asense of who theyare. Youstart towonder, Wow, what if this person and I connected? In a world where yousit aroundall dayin your pajamas and swipe righton the faces of yourdreams, the optionsproblem rearsitsugly head, making settling down seem so damn limiting. Yes, you have someone great, but are you surethey’re the greatest? But even for thosewho overcome thishurdle and commit to settlingdown, more challengeslie ahead. PASSIONATE LOVE AND COMPANIONATE LOVE Common wisdomsaysthat inevery relationshipthere are two phases. There’sthe beginning, where you fall in loveand everything is new and magical. Then, after a certain point, maybe a few years, things get lessexciting and moreroutine. There’s stilllove, butit’s just notlike the magic you hadin the beginning. As Woody Allen says in Annie Hall, “Love fades.” “Notin myrelationship! Everything is great. We peaked and then thatpeak turnedintoa plateau and now we’ve beenpeaking ever since!” Okay, why areyou even readingthis book about relationships?So you can see whatmistakes sad,lonely people are making tocause them to have so much shittier lives than you? You know, why don’tyou just putthis book downand gohave sex with your partner you’re so into,youasshole? But wait,hold on a second—science says you are possiblylying. Yeah, I’m talkingbrain scans and shit. BRAIN SCANS. Researchers have actually identifiedtwo distinctkinds of love: passionate love and companionate love. In the first stage of a relationshipyouhave passionate love. Thisis where you and yourpartnerarejust goingapeshit for each other. Everysmilemakes yourheart flutter. Every nightismore magical than the last. During this phase your brain gets especiallyactive and starts releasing allkinds ofpleasurable, stimulating neurotransmitters. Your brain floodsyour neural synapses with dopamine, the same neurotransmitter that gets releasedwhenyoudo cocaine. “Carol,Ican’tdescribe how youmakeme feel. Wait, no, I can—you make my mind releasepleasureinducing neurotransmitters and you’ve flooded my mind with dopamine. Ifthe experienceof snorting cocaineand getting so high outof my mind that I want to climb a telephonepolewith mybare hands justto seeif I can doitwere a person, it wouldbeyou.” Like all drugs, though, this highwears off. Scientists estimate thatthis phase usually lasts abouttwelveto eighteen months. At a certain point thebrain rebalances itself. It stopspumping out adrenaline and dopamineand you startfeeling likeyoudid beforeyou fell in love. The passion youfirst feltstarts to fade. Yourbrain is like, ALL RIGHT!! We get it, we get it. She’s great, blah, blah, blah. Whathappens then? Well, ingood relationships, aspassionatelovefades,a secondkind oflove arisesto take its place: companionate love. Companionate loveis neurologicallydifferent from passionate love. Passionate lovealways spikes early,then fades away,while companionate loveis less intense butgrows over time. And,whereas passionatelove lights upthe brain’spleasure centers, companionate love is associated with the regions havingto do with long-term bonding andrelationships. Anthropologist Helen Fisher, the author of Anatomy of Love and oneof themost citedscholarsin the study of sex and attraction, was part of aresearchteam that gathered and tookbrain scansof then-middle-aged people who’d been marriedanaverageof twenty-oneyears while they lookedata photograph of their spouse, and compared them with brain scans of younger people lookingat their newpartners. Whatthey discovered,shewrites, is that: “Among the olderlovers, brain regionsassociatedwith anxiety were nolonger active; instead, there was activityin the areas associated with calmness.”1 Neurologicallyit’s similarto the kind of love youfeel for an old friendor a family member. Solove goesfromfeeling likeI’m doingcocaine to feelinghow Ifeel about my uncle?I don’twant tomake companionate lovesoundlike abummer. It is love, just less intense and morestable. There is still passion, but it’s balanced with trust, stability, and anunderstanding ofeach other’sflaws. If passionate loveisthe coke of love, companionate loveis like havinga glass of wineor smoking afew hits ofsome mild weed. Thatmakes it sound a little better thanthe unclething, right? Wealllike booze and weed more than we likeourrelatives,right? Great. It alsomakes sense that passionate love shouldn’tlast. Ifwecould all havelifelong passionate love,the world wouldcollapse. We’d stay in our apartments lovingly staring at our partners while the streets filled with large animals andhomeless children eating outof the garbage. This transition from passionate love to companionate lovecanbe tricky. Inhis book The Happiness Hypothesis, NYU socialpsychologist Jonathan Haidt identifies twodanger points ineveryromantic relationship. One is at theapex ofthe passionate love phase. We’ve all seen thisin action. People get allexcitedand dive in headfirst. Anew couple, weeks or monthsintoa relationship, highoff passionate love,go bonkers and movein and get married way too quickly. This islike when you do abunch ofcocaine and decide you have a great lifeplan that you’re ready to put into action. “I figured itout, bro! I gotta melt oldVCRs and mold themelted plastic to makeactionfigures. I’ll sell thoseand then I’ll use the profit to fundmy business thatsellsreversibleclothes! I’ll callthem ‘Inside Out Pajamas.’ Think aboutit! One side is regular streetclothes, thenatnight you turn ’em inside outand BOOM, PAJAMAS! Hey, is mynose bleeding?” Sometimes thesecouples are ableto transition from the passionate stageto companionate love. Other times, though, they transition into acrazy, toxic relationshipand they get divorced andwonder what the hell theywere thinking. “Shit, so apparently the pajama side getsreal dirty and gross during theday. Maybeyouwear thepajama side thenight beforeyou wearthe clothes side? Ah, fuck,whatam I doing?! Stupid!Stupid! Fuck. I probably shouldn’t have hacked into myparents’ bank account andcleaned out their retirementfund. I’m goingto need way more cocaineto figurethis out . ..” Theseconddanger point is whenpassionate lovestarts wearingoff. This is when you startcoming downoff of that initial highand you start worrying about whetherthis is really the right person. A couple weeksago you were giddyand obsessed. All the new quirks andfacts you learned aboutyour lover felt likewonderfullittlesurprises, likecoming homeand finding achocolate onyour pillow. Now you’relike, Okay, I get it. You like sewing historically accurate Civil War uniforms!! Your textsused tobeso loving: Nowyour textsare like: or: Youconclude there’s something wrong with the person or the relationship since itisn’tas excitingas before. So you break up, without evergiving companionate lovea chance to bloom. But Haidt argues that when youhit this stage, you should just be patient. With luck, if youallowyourself to invest more inthe other person, you willfind a beautiful life companion. I hada ratherweird firsthand experience with this. When I firststarted dating my girlfriend, afew monthsin,I wentto afriend’s wedding in BigSur. I went alone, because myfriend did me a huge solid and declined to give me a plusone. Which, ofcourse, is the best. You get to sitby yourself and bea third wheel. Plus youget to constantly squeeze yourhead in betweenthe heads of variouscouplesand cutely go, “Whatchuguystalkin’ ’bout?” It’sGREAT! Thevows in this wedding werepowerful. They were saying the most remarkable, lovingthings about each other. Thingslike “You area prism that takes thelight of lifeand turns itintoa rainbow” or “Youarealotion thatmoisturizes myheart. Without you,my soul has eczema.” Itwasthe noncheesy, heartfelt version ofstuff likethat. After theweddingfour differentcouplesbroke up, supposedly becausethey didn’t feel like theyhad the lovethat was expressedin thosevows. Didthey callit off too early,attheirdanger point?I don’tknow,but Itoo felt scaredhearing that stuff. Did I havewhatthose people had? At that point, no. Butfor somereasonIfeltdeep down thatIshould keepinvestingin myrelationship and that eventually thatlevel of love wouldshow itself. And, so far, ithas. DO YOU NEED TO GET MARRIED? In relationships, there’s commitmentand COMMITMENT, the kind thatinvolvesalicense, usually some kind of religiousblessing, anda ceremony inwhich every oneof yourclosefriends and relatives watches you and yourpartner promise tostay togetheruntilone of you dies. Whathappens to people’sgraphs of love once theyget past theinitial phases oflove and power through their dangerpoints? This graph, which we got fromJonathan Haidt, measures the intensity of love over the course of amarriage. In the beginning, when you first get married, you get ashot of passionate love. This boost lasts about two years. Then the passionfades and you have various ups and downs. Yougo throughthe experiencesof living together and raising afamily. When the kids finallyflee thecoop —atabout the twenty-fiveyearmark in thesecond chart —youand yourmate geta rush of loving intensity. You can bask in the romance and maybe evenrekindlesome of the passion that brought you together in thefirstplace. Then, soonafterthat, you’re dead. WheneverI’m at a wedding watchingabeautiful couple exchangevows under atree orata mountain ora rainbow orwhatever, I start thinking aboutthis graph. Thebrutal truthisthat no matter how much they love each other, how beautiful the ceremony,howpoeticand lovingthe vows,once they finish theirwedding, you know their love is goingto get less passionate and their lifeisgoing to get more complicated, andnot inthe most fun ways. Theromantic partof the relationshiphaspeaked. After therings, the priest should just say, “Enjoyit, bing-bongs. Due toour brain’stendency toward hedonicadaptation, you won’tfeel quite thisgiddy in afew years. All right, where’s thepigs inablanket? I’m outta here.” Sowhy get married at all? In recent decades, and in most developed nations, marriage rates have dropped precipitously, leading some to wonderwhether itisa dying institution. Philip Cohen, one ofthe leading demographers ofthe family, has documentedthe steep and widespread decline in global marriage rates sincethe 1970s. According tohis calculations,89 percent of the global population livesin a country with afalling marriage rate, andthose who livein Europe andJapan are experiencingsomething more likea plummet.2 In the United States marriage rates arenowat historiclows. In1970,for instance,therewere about seventy-four marriages for every thousand unmarried womenin the population. By 2012 that had fallento thirtyoneper thousand single women—a dropof almost60 percent. Americans are also joining the internationaltrend ofmarrying later. In 1960, 68 percent of all people intheir twenties weremarried, compared with just26 percent in2008.3 For thefirsttimein history, the typical American now spendsmore years single thanmarried. Whatare people doing instead ofgetting married? As Eric wrote inhis book Going Solo, we areliving ina time of incredible experimentation with differentways ofsettling down. Long-term cohabitationwitha romantic partnerison therise, especially inEurope. Living alonehasskyrocketed almost everywhere, andin many majorcities—fromParisto Tokyo,Washington, D.C., to Berlin—nearlyhalfof all households havejust one resident. But marriage is not an altogether undesirable institution. Afterall,reams of social-scienceresearchshow thatsuccessfulmarriagescan makepeople livelonger and be happierand healthier than single people. (Admittedly, a great many marriages aren’t successful,and thosewho divorceor become widows or widowers maynotget all these benefits.) Good marriages also bringpeoplemore financial security, andthese days one ofthe things that sociologists worry about is thatbetter-off people are marrying more— and moresuccessfully—than poor people, which increases inequality overall. In the United States, sociologist AndrewCherlin writes, “marriage has become a status symbol—a highly regarded markerof a successful personallife.”4 WhenI saw this graph (p. 219), I hadathought. Might it make more sense to forgo marriage and, instead, setout to experience alifetime’s worthof, say,one-to two-year, intensely passionate relationships?Wouldn’t that be better than toiling through the doldrums ofdecades of waitingforyour risein companionate love? Then yourgraph would look likethis, right? I contactedJonathan Haidt,the psychologistwho drew the passionate/companionatelove graphs, and asked whathe thought about the hypotheticalgraph. Here was his response: There are two ways of thinking of satisfaction. One is the passionate/companionate love hedonic view, that the best life would be the one with the most passion in it. The other is a narrative view, that the best life is about building a story. If you think the best life would be one with the most passion in it, then yes, that strategy would be much better than getting married. Falling in love is the most intense and wonderful experience— the second-most intense, after certain drugs, which are more intense for a few hours. Short of that, falling in love is the most wonderful thing. But I didn’t get much work done when I was falling in love with my wife. And then we had kids, we finally had children, and that was totally involving—and it would be weird to be such a romantically involved couple when you’re raising kids. And now that that insanity has passed, I can return to writing books, which I really love doing. And I have a life partner who I think about all day long. And that’s not tragic. That’s not even disappointing. I have a life partner. We work together really well. We’ve built a fantastic life together. We’re both really, really happy. If you take a narrative view, there are different things to accomplish at different stages of life. Dating and having these passionate flings are perfect when you’re younger, but some of the greatest joys of life come from nurturing and from what’s called “generativity.” People have strong strivings to build something, to do something, to leave something behind. And of course having children is one way of doing that. My own experience having children was that I discovered there were rooms in my heart that I didn’t even know were there. And if I had committed to a life of repeated sexual flings, I never would have opened those doors. If you think the whole point of life is to gaze into your lover’s eyes all day until you die —well, then, I wouldn’t want your life. Was he quoting James Van Der Beek in Varsity Blues at the end there?Odd choice. Otherthan that, though,Haidt’s analysis madea lot ofsenseto me. Passionate love is adrug that makesyoufeel amazing. A planto justrepeatthat feeling over and oversoundsnice in theorybut inpractice would be kind of dumb. Ecstasy makesyoufeel amazing too. Butif I told you thatmy life planwasto make enough moneyto just do ecstasy all the time for twentyyears, you’dthink I was a lunatic. Also, it’s nice toimagine thatgraph being nothing but a series of high peaks with little valleys below,butas anyone who’s beensingleforan extendedperiod knows, the graph would probably be much weirder: MONOGAMY, MONOGAMISH Therearemanygreat things about being ina committed relationship. You have a bond fullof love, trust,and stability. It’s beautiful. But theexcitement and novelty of atotally unexpected romantic encounter? That part ofyour lifeisdead. For many people we interviewed, thiscreates a conflictthatisn’teasily resolved. Nomatter what their datingsituation, people are torn betweenthe benefits ofa faithful, monogamous relationshipand thenovelty and excitementof single life. Some people, including many prominent evolutionary psychologists and biological anthropologists, say that men and women aren’teven wired to be monogamous. I spoke at length about this with the biological anthropologist HelenFisher. Fisher contends thatour cave-dwelling ancestors, compelled to spread their genetic material, had many sexualpartners simultaneously, and after thousandsof years of promiscuity,human brains are still wired to mate with multiple people. Thecurrentnorms of faithfulness and sexual exclusivity are actually relatively neweven in modern times. According to the marriage historian Stephanie Coontz, in the eighteenth centuryAmerican menwere quite open about their extramarital escapades. Shefoundletters inwhich husbands described their mistresses to their wives’ brothers andrecountedhow theycontractedsexually transmitteddiseasesfrom prostitutes. I wasn’t ableto find oneof those letters,but I imagineit was something like this: My Dearest Charles, I hope this letter finds you in the halest and heartiest of conditions. I’m sure it will, as your constitution, as I recall, was always most impressive for its resilience and fortitude. What do you make of this so-called “Revolution”? I fear that, win or lose, we shall be feeling its reverberations for decades to come. In other news, in addition to your sister, I am fucking Tina, this woman I met at the bar last week. I also caught syphilis from a prostitute I met in Boston. Fondly, your brother-in-law, Henry Men, Coontz explains, believed sexual adventure was their birthright, and womenbasicallyaccepted this as afacet of the relationship. “Forthousands ofyears it was expectedof menthey would haveaffairs and flings,” Coontz told the New York Times. “Thatwould be unthinkable today.”5 Sowhat changed? I spoke with the journalist and sexcolumnist Dan Savage, who has written at length aboutthe age-old conflictbetween being faithful andhaving sexual adventure outside of a committedrelationship. Savage contendsthat the women’s movementduring the twentieth century fundamentallychanged our approachto theproblem. Women, he explains, rightly contested thepresumption thatmen couldfoolaround while theyhad nooutside sexualoptions. Butthe decisive shift came when, rather than extending to womenthe leewaymen had alwaysenjoyed tohave extramarital sexual escapades, society took the oppositeapproach. Men could have said, “Okay,let’s both mess around.” But instead mengot preemptively jealous oftheir wivesmessing aroundand said, “What?No, I don’twant you boningother dudes! Let’s justbothnot mess around.” This,Savage says, is when the monogamousexpectation was placedon men and women, andit’s an expectation thatneither sex is wired tomeet. “You’retoldin the culturethat ifyou want to fuck somebody else you need to do the rightthing andend this relationship beforeyou fuck somebody else oryou’re abad guy oryou’rea bad girl,” he said. “I think that that’s bullshit. There’s higher loyalty. There’s a greater good. A relationshipismore thanjust not touching anybody else with your penis everagain.” I put myself tothe test with athought experiment. Let’s say my girlfriend was in Miami for a bachelorette party, and she ran into R&B superstar/actor Tyrese Gibson (Fast and the Furious franchise, Baby Boy). Andfor somereasonthey hit it off, and sheended up hooking up with Tyrese. Itwas a one-night thing. She wasn’t in lovewithTyrese. Shewasn’t trying to be with Tyrese. She wasn’t trying to getinvited to dinneratGibsiHana, the custom restaurant Tyresehad built inhis backyardto mimic aBenihana Japanese steak house.* Ifthat were the case,I think Iwould be okay with it —if I didn’t knowaboutit. I posited this hypotheticalsituationto my girlfriend andreversed the roles, with itbeing me who took anotherpartner. She didn’t feel thesame way. She saw no reason forus to stray fromourmonogamyand felt thatdoing so wouldbea violation of the trust inour relationship. She said if I got drunkand somethinglike that didhappen,shewould be understanding, but it would be abigdeal and she’d want to knowaboutit. However, she also said there was a big difference between me being really drunk and making a mistake andactively pursuing asexual tryst outsideour relationship, hitting bars and textingwomen tohave a quick fling. Also, probablybest if I had this whole conversation at home in private,as opposedto abar, where I definitely got looks from people who seemedto be curiousas to why Iwas discussing my girlfriend hypothetically cheating on me with Tyrese. Savage believes that cheating is temptingforjust about everyone and that for somepeopleit’s simply too hard to resist. Ratherthan succumbing to urgeswe all have, cheatingbehind our partner’s back, getting caught, and destroying the relationship, Savagethinks we’d be better off acknowledging that we have these desires and deciding how to dealwiththem—as a couple. “Ifyou have children together,if you havea history together,if you haveproperty together,if you melded two extendedfamilies together, all ofthathas toweigh more thanone blow job you goton abusinesstrip,” he said. Savage isn’t opposedto monogamy. Herecognizes its advantages forthose who can sustainit and produce successful relationships. The problem, he says,isthat today far toomanypeople are makingcommitments that theycannot realistically honor. Theidea oftryingto maintain acommitted relationshipwhilealso satisfying our urges for sexualnovelty has led to a lot ofexperimentation overthe years with “open relationship”–type arrangements. Coupleshave tried everything fromopen marriages to being “swingers” to maintaining “don’task, don’t tell” policies. Just how many people haveexperimented withthese arrangements?Thelatest survey datashow that 26 percent of American menand 18 percentof American womenreport having engaged in “anopensexual relationship.” Surprisingly, youngadultsbetweenthe ages oftwenty-one and thirty are theleastlikely to have tried this, at only 19 percent, whereas it is most prevalent amongthose intheirforties, at 26 percent. And seniors? Twenty-two percentof them havetriedanopensexual relationship. Damn! “Open relationships? Is that where you fuck other people? Yeah, we do that sometimes.”* Savage coined theterm “monogamish” to describehis own openrelationship with his partner. Thegist ofit is thatthe couple is deeply committedto each other, but there isroom foroutside sexualactivity. “Monogamish” is not a one-size-fits-allconcept. Each couple works out their own terms and agrees beforehandto what sexual activityoutside the relationshipwillbetolerated. Some demand complete honesty from their partner, while others may prefera “don’task, don’t tell” policy. Some restricthowclose the outside personmustbe—at least a friendof a friend, at least a friendof a friendof a friend, a stranger neither of you willever see again, someone who lives in a differentstate, or it can only be MichiganStateUniversity provost June Pierce Youatt. (All right, thelastone not as much.) In our interviewsand on our subreddit, we metseveral couples who had set up arrangementsin the vein of whatSavage discussed. Some ofthe people wereincredibly enthusiasticabout their experiences. Onthe subreddit onewoman wrote: I’ve been in open relationships for the last ten years now, and have been with my husband for 8 years. I chose to be in one when I realized that every boyfriend I ever had cheated on me, and I cheated on every one of them. I finally decided that maybe I need variety, and that I was attracted to sexually adventurous men. Being in an open relationship is such a relief—no more lies, no more horrible break ups, no more guilt. My husband and I have rules we follow, like he can only see someone else once a week, and if I don’t like the girl he picks I can make him stop seeing her. The best part is, we can be honest about how we feel without judgement. No more hiding crushes or sexual tension. We are madly in love, and have a daughter together. I know it’s not for everyone but it works for us. Other couples usedthese kinds ofarrangements to facilitatelong-distance relationships. One woman, who had been seeingher musicianboyfriendfora few months, told meabout the agreement theymadewhen he went away on tour. She understoodthat he was on the road for monthsatatime, and in theinterest ofmaintaining the relationship,shewould let him havesome leeway while on tour—up toa point. They created “tour rules” thathe had to follow. “No sex,just blow jobs. That’s asfar as it could go,” she said. Andshedidn’twanther boyfriend maintaining contact with anyone thisstuff happenedwith. “Idon’t want to be inbed andlook over and seeing him texting some girl from Cincinnati,” she explained. “And while he’s away, I have the same privileges.” We also met awoman fromBrooklyn who hadjust startingdating someonewho madeit clear that he wanted to occasionally hookup with other people. They entered into an agreement where they could havesexwithothers, butonly under thefollowing conditions:The personhad to be at least two degrees outside their friend group (a friendof a friend), it was “don’task, don’t tell,” andif theywere out hooking up with someone else, theyhad to make a good excusethat didn’t let onthat they were outmessing around. It was an “outof sight, outof mind” typeof arrangement, and it was working. In her case, however, havinganopenarrangement was notexactlyideal. When we asked why she and her partnerdidit, she explained thatit wasn’t because she wanted more variety and sexualadventurein herown life. It was more ofa protective mechanism, so that she didn’t riskher boyfriend strayingfromthe relationship because of his interestin sleeping with otherpeople. “I feellike he’ll probablycheat anyway,” she said, “and at least thisway I’mcontrolling it.” We metother people who had enteredopen relationshipsin which thetwo partnerswere not equally enthusiasticabout the arrangement. Agentlemanon the subreddittoldusthat he had agreedto an open relationshipwitha woman who wanted onebecause he didn’t wantto lose her altogether. But, ashe explains, thatjust turnedout to be a long, painful way to get hurt: I was so into her that I decided that being with her in an open relationship was better than nothing. Because I wasn’t really interested in anyone else it was mostly me being with her, and her being with a few other guys until she found someone she liked more than me. It was a weird situation. I’d call her up and be like, “Hey wanna go see a movie or grab dinner?” and she’d be like, “Oh. Awkward. I’m actually with Schmitty Yagermanjensen tonight.” Or she wouldn’t answer at all, which was even worse, because then I had to guess what she was doing . .. Beinga placeholder sucks, and that’s pretty much how it was for me. Another woman wrote thatenteringintoanopen relationshipwas “the worst decision I’d ever made.” “Whenthe goinggot tough, I was theone who got screwed over. Under the guiseof ‘we all love each other andcare about each other, primary and secondary comefirst,’ he sleptwitha third woman thatI wasn’t comfortable with yet, and basically told meto f---off. We don’ttalk anymore,” she said. Sometimes both parties are equallyintocreating an open arrangement—atleast in theory. In practice, though, theysoondiscover that sleeping with otherpeople can be a messy affair. We metRaina, awoman who tried to strike suchan agreement with hernew husband. Theymoved to Hong Kongaftergetting married andagreedto allow outside sexual partnerswitha “don’task, don’t tell” policy. They both were enthusiastic about entering an open relationship, but at a certain moment Rainafound things had gone far beyondher expectations: I thought I was being realistic. So I once had a conversation, and said I’m not gonna divorce you if there’s an indiscretion or two, but you have to be like the CIA about it. I don’t want to know about it. I don’t want to sniff it. You’ve got to be that level, so that it’s invisible. But we had the secondary policy that if I ever wanted to know, that he had to tell the truth. And so, we were on vacation for my birthday in Kyoto, and I asked. He said, “I don’t think I want to tell you this on your birthday.” And I thought, “Okay, so now I know that he’s doing something.” And I said, “Well, why don’t you just tell me how many people?” And then he said, “Give me a second.” He needed to calculate it. He came back with the following number. And I want you to notice that at this point we’re 13 months into our marriage. 26. 26 individuals. I was expecting one, maybe two. I did not expect 26. Well . . .happy birthday, Raina! Therelationship ended soonafter. I told Savage that my fearin trying to have an open relationshipwithsomeone is thatit would becomea dangerouslyslipperyslope. Maybeit wouldn’tventure into Rainaterritory, butI could stillsee thingseasily gettingout of hand. Anytime I hear about couples experimentinglike this, they eventually break up. Savage didn’t accept that explanation. “Whena nonmonogamous relationship fails, everyone blames the nonmonogamy;when a closedrelationship fails,no oneever blames the closed relationship,” hesaid. Savage also explained thatthe nonmonogamous relationshipsthat did work werebuilt on a strong foundation. “Frommyobservations ofmany, manyyears andmy personalexperience, the relationshipsthat are successfullymonogamishor thathave an allowanceof an understanding were monogamous for years,” Savage told me. He alsosaid both participants need to really want an open relationshipand neitherparty can be wishy-washy. If it’s clearly a one-sided desire, it isn’t goingto work. Themodel ultimately seems builttoaddressthe fact thatpassionate lovecannot last long-term, and that the foundation ofa strong relationshipisnot perpetual excitement and intensity but a deep, hard-earned emotional bond that intensifiesover time. In other words, companionate love. Savage’s argumentfor more honestyabout our desiresis compelling. Butfor most people,in the United Statesatleast,integrating outside sexual activity into a relationshipisdifficult to imagine. When I’d bring it up in casualconversations orin focus groups, there was massiveskepticism. Some people wereafraid thateven bringingup suchnotions to their partner could lead to trouble in a relationship. “IfIbrought up something like thatto my wife,” one man said, “it wouldbea game changerin the relationship. Ifshewasn’t into it, I couldn’ttakeit back and say, ‘Oh no, Iwasjust kidding, I don’tthink about havingsexwithotherpeople. That doesn’tappealtome at all.’ Instead, theseedsof doubtwould be planted, and I’d be screwed. It would open up a shitcanof issues. And theywould never goaway.” Others understoodthe rationalebehind wanting an open relationshipin theory, butthey doubted that they could pull it off. “For me personally, I couldn’tbecool with it,” one woman at a focus grouptoldus. “Iwant to be, but I couldn’trollwith it.” Manywomen we met said iftheir boyfriendasked if theywere willing tohave a more open relationship, they’dstart todoubt how serious he was. “At that point, why even bewith someone?” onewoman asked, with apparentdisdain for the monogamish idea. “If you don’twant tobe committed, justgo jerk off.” (To be clear, she was talkingto her hypotheticalpartner. She wasn’t tellingme to leavethe interview andgo masturbate.) Experts, even thosewho agreewithSavagein theory, havealsovoiced concern about how realistic these arrangementsare in practice. “I can certainly seethe appeal ofsuggestingwetryand makethis an open, mutual, gender-equal arrangement,” said Coontz, themarriage historian. “I’m a little dubious how much thatis going to work.” Barry Schwartz,our authorityon choice and decision making,also worried about theidea oftrying to makechoices and explore other options on theside. “When I was yourage, open marriages becamethe vogue,” he told me. “All these high-powered, intellectual typeswere convinced theycould have lovingrelationships with their partnersand also sleepwith other people. They were above the petty moralityof their parents. Everysingle oneof them ended up unmarried within a year of starting. So,atleast back then, itcouldn’t survive. Monogamycouldnotsurvive promiscuity.” Maybethe person who putsthis whole issue in perspective best is rapper Pitbull. In perhapsmy favorite d research I book or li foundan discussed relationsh girlfriend words Oj corazón q “Whatthe heart doe “Peo what’s no  CONCLUSION WHEN I STARTED THIS BOOK,Ihad a lot ofburning questionsabout modern romance. The shenaniganswe all have experienced often left me confused, frustrated,and angry. Trying to find love (or even something casual)in a romantic climate filledwith endlessschedulingtexts and hurdleslike Tanya’s “silencing” of 2012 canbea stressful experience. Then, even after finding agreat, healthyrelationship with aloving partner, awhole new set of questionsarose. I worried about settlingdown. Should I closeall the exciting doors of today’s single world?If thingsstart tofeel routine and less exciting,is sexting going to make our romantic life any better?If I suspectthat my partnerhas something going on theside, whatare the ethics of looking at herFacebookor phone messages tofind out?Andif passionate love fades eventually,should I be seeking along-term, monogamous relationship anyway? I wrote this book because I wanted tobetter understand all theconundrumsthat come up in modern romance. So, after teamingup with an eminentsociologist, interviewing hundreds of people, consulting the world’s foremost expertson romanceand relationships, conductingfieldwork infive countries, and readinga mountain of studies and books andnews articles and academic papers,what exactly haveIlearned? A lot, actually. Here’s whatI took away fromthis entire experience: Finding someone today is probably more complicated and stressful than it was for previous generations— but you’re also more likely to end up with someone you are really excited about. Our searchfor the right person—andevenour idea ofwhat “theright person” actuallymeans—has changedradicallyin a very, very shortamount of time. IfIhad beenayoung person a fewgenerations ago, I wouldhave gottenmarried pretty young. Mostlikely, I wouldhave woundup marryingsome girlwho lived in my neighborhood in my hometownof Bennettsville, SouthCarolina, around the time I was twenty-three. She wouldhave beeneven younger, which meansshe wouldhave beengoing straightfromher father’s armsintomine, with no time to develop orpursueher own interests. Let’s say herfamily owned thelocal Hardee’s franchise.* Herparentswould meet me early onand decide I was adecentguy with a decent jobwhowasn’tgoing to murder anyone. We’d set off on a briefperiod of dating and then getmarried. I’d run the Hardee’sand probably bepretty good at it. MaybeI’d catch wind of a guy whowasrunning a huge “biscuit extortion” scam to smugglebiscuitsacross the border to Georgia. Thescam wouldwork likethis: The guy and hispartnerwould steal biscuits fromourstoreand thensell the stolen biscuits at alower cost onthe biscuit blackmarket. After getting suspicious of his frequent trips to Georgia,I would hide in thebed ofaFord F-150, under a bunch of biscuits,and when theyreachedtheir destination, I’d dramatically pop up and go, “GIMME BACKMY BISCUITS.” Thefamilywould be proud. Ideally, my wifeand I wouldgrow together and havea happy relationship. Butmaybe, as we grew,we’d become differentpeople and realizethe relationship wasn’t working. Maybe mywife wouldresent her homemaker role and have desiresand goalsbeyond those afforded to women ofthe era. Maybe I’d be a dissatisfiedgrump who eventually joined Alfredo ina retirementhome where we schemed for doughnutson the reg. But Idon’t live in that era. When I hittwenty-three, I wasn’t thinkingabout marriage at all. Instead I got the chance to experience “emerging adulthood” and grow as aperson. I met people from all over the worldin this part of mylife. I wasn’t limited to justthe folks I knew inmy neighborhood in Bennettsville. Soas Igrew older, I figured out my career, I dated people in New York and Los Angeles, and eventually I started datinga beautiful cheffromTexas whomImet throughfriends offriends inNew York. We wouldhave never metin previous generations, because Iwould havebeen married to theHardee’s girl and shewould haveprobably been settled downin Texas with someguyshemet in her neighborhood,maybe ahotsauce king named Dusty.* And whoknows if wewould haveeven hitit off if wedid meet?I becamea very differentperson between the ages oftwenty-threeand thirty-one. ThesituationIhave now is probably a better dealfor me than theone I wouldhave had a few generations ago. If you are awoman, forget about it. With all thecultural advancements, middle-class and professional womenof this erahave gained the freedom tohave their own lives and careerswithoutthe need formarriage. Having a husbandand kidsisn’ta prerequisiteto having a well-rounded, fulfilling adult life anymore. Tobeclear, I’m not saying thatfillingthat traditionalhousewiferole over being a professionalis a bad thing to dotoday,and I know that the decisions womenmake aboutwork are complicated. Also, I’mnot saying thatwomen who do choosecareers hate their kids, etc. AmIclear here?I’M NOT SHITTING ON ANYONE’SLIFE CHOICE (unless the choice is to smoke crackand treat your kids like the Mo’Niquecharacter treats Preciousin themovie Precious). But what’s important isthat morewomen thanever areable to make thatchoice forthemselves. Even ifwomen domake the choice to pursuetheir careers, theresearchshows thatthey still do way more of their shareof thedomestic work than men (stepit up, dudes), butoverall they are closerto being equitable partnersthan they were afew generations ago. Theydon’t haveto settle downattwenty with somebozowho their parents thinkwillbea good match because hehasa good jobor whatever. The “good-enough marriage” is definitely not good enough for today’s singles. We’renot contentto marrysomeone who happens to live down thestreet and gets along okay with our parents. Sure, therewere lots of people in previous generations who met someone inthe neighborhood and grewto have a deep, lovingsoulmate–level bond. Butthere aremanyothers who didn’t. And thecurrent generation won’t take that risk. Wewant a soulmate. And we are willing to look very far, fora very long time, to findone. A soulmate isn’t just someone welove. As for our grandparents,there are probably lots ofpeopleout there whomwecouldsettle down with and, in the fullness oftime, growto love. But we wantmore thanlove. We wanta lifelong wingman/wingwomanwho completesusand can handle the truth,to mix metaphors fromthreedifferent Tom Cruise movies. Historically, we’re at a uniquemoment. Noone has everbeen presentedwith more options in romance and expected tomake a decision where the expectations areso astronomically high. And with all thesechoices, how can anyone possibly be sure thatthey’ve made the right one? Get over it:Youcan’t! Soyoujust haveto power through and have hope that as you grow andmature, you’ll eventually learn to navigate this new romantic world and find someonewhodoes feel rightforyou. Technology hasn’t just changed how we find romance; it’s also put a new spin on the timeless challenges we face once we’re in a relationship. One ofthe strange things thathappens in modern romance is thatonce you start datingsomeone, your physical livesaren’tthe only things that get entangled;your phone worlds also merge. Today couples havea shared space thatthey can usefor something intimate like sexting. Sometimes this shared phone world isa source ofexcitementand novelty, but othertimes the phone world becomes anew source ofjealousy. Wewind up snoopingrather than trusting our specialperson. Andthe fearsthat make us snoop are valid, because, let’sface it—people cheat. In fact, people make mistakes in relationshipsall the time. On this issuethe United States mightbeable to learn something from France. I’m notverycomfortable with a Frenchwoman being forced to live with herhusband havinga long-term mistress, butI do like thatthe French are willing to realistically acknowledge theessential fallibilityof human nature and the fact that people, despite their best intentions and theirlove fortheir partners, do stray. Like Dan Savage (and, to an extent, Pitbull)says, a relationshipis biggerthan theidea ofsexual exclusivity. Treat potential partners like actual people, not bubbles on a screen. With onlinedating and smartphones, we can message people allover the world. We can interactwith potential mates on ascalethat simplywasn’tconceivablefor previous generations. But this shift to digital communication has apowerful sideeffect. When youlook at your phone and see atextfrom a potential partner, you don’t alwayssee anotherperson—you often seea little bubble with textin it. Andit’s easy toforgetthat this bubble is actually a person. As we seemore and more people online,itcan get difficultto remember that behindeverytext message, OkCupid profile,and Tinder picturethere’san actual living, breathing, complex person, justlike you. But it’s so,soimportant to rememberthis. For onething,whenyou forgetyou’retalking toa real person, you mightstart saying the kinds of things ina text messagethat noperson in their rightmind wouldever say to a real-life person ina million years. Ifyou were in a bar, wouldyou ever goup to a guy or girland repeat the word “hey” ten times in a row without gettinga response? Wouldyou ever goup to a womanyou met twominutes ago and beg her to show you oneof herboobs? Even ifyou are justlooking for acasual hookup,do you really think this will work?Andif so,do you really want to bone someone who responds to this? Yet people sendthese kinds oftext messagesall the time. Ican only concludethat it’sbecause it’ssoeasyto forgetthat you’re talking to anotherhuman being and not abubble. And the contentof these bubblescanreally shape how you, the person, are judged. We havetwo selves:a real-world self and aphone self, andthe nonsense our phone selves do can make our real-world selves look like idiots. Our real-worldselves and ourphoneselves go hand in hand. Act like adummy with your phoneself andsend somethoughtless message full ofspelling errors, and the real-world self will paythe price. The personon theother end sees no difference between yourtwo selves. They never think, Oh, I’m sure he’s much more intelligent and thoughtful in person. This is just his “lazy phone persona.” Ifyou text something innocuous like “Wsup” to someone you just metand wantto goout with, it may notseem particularly dumb. Butwhen you thinkback on all our interviews and remember how much of that garbage is ineveryone’s phones, yourealizeitmakes you seem likea pretty boring, generic person. Don’tjust write a stupid “Wsup” message. Try tosay something thoughtfulor funnyand invitethis person to do anice,interesting thing. Make itpersonal. Mention thatthing you werejoking about, like seeing a dog driving a hovercraft—I mean, wow,how luckywere you twoto seethat together? I wishI could’ve been there. Who knows,this could bethe person you spend the restof your life with!I have many friendswhostart something with the intentionof its being casual, butthereis a spark and itends upbeingserious. Iteven happenedto me. Your most casual encounter could leadto something bigger,sotreat thoseinteractions with that levelof respect. Even if it doesn’tblossom, treatingthe messages with that levelof respectwillsurelymakethe person onthe other end more receptiveas well. There is no downside to it. Andif you really want to go nuts,maybe athoughtful phone conversation wouldn’t be the worstthing in the world? On another note, Ialso learned that everyoneplays gameswithtexting, like waitinglonger than the other person totext, sending replies ofequal length, always trying to getthe last word, andthe like. Evenif you say you “don’tplay games,” that isa typeof game—itis the “I don’tplay games” game. Everyone hatesthese gamesand noone wantsto playthem. Forthe most part, people justwanttobe honest and say how they feel, and theydefinitely want others to be honest andopenwith them. But here’s thething: Unfortunately thosegames are actuallykindof effective. No matter howmuch people wantthings to bedifferent,I don’tthink we can defeat the insecurities and tendencies built into our internal psychology. But let’s all realize we are inthe same boat dealing with the sameshit. Soif you aren’t into someone,before justignoring them, tryto be mindfulof how frustrating it is to be onthe other sideof thatand maybe try crafting them an honest messageor, at the least, lie and say: “Hey, sorry, workingon mydebut rapalbum, Fantabulous, so gonna be inthe studio nonstopand need to focus, notdating at themoment. I’m very flattered though and you are a greatperson,all the best.” In books likethisit’seasy to getnegative about technology andits impact. This shift in communication can be very annoying, and hearingolder generations bemoanit, you can easily romanticize the past. But I was at aweddingrecently where I saw that thereisa beautiful side tothings as well. During the toasts, a bridesmaid shared some early e-mails that the bridehad sent heryears agowhenshewas first pursuing thegroom,who was painfullyoblivious to her advances. The initiale-mails showed herbeing sad thatthe guy didn’tloveher backand worried thatsheshould give up. Herfriendeven said that she should “hang itup” because she was becoming “thatgirl.” But she kepton, and months later therewasan e-mail saying that she was madly inlove. Hearingthose e-mails was remarkable, andit made me realize thatdigital technologygives allof us the chanceto have this very uniquerecord ofourromantic relationships. On our one-year anniversary my girlfriend gaveme ahuge bookthat compiled the entirehistory of our textmessages from the first yearof our relationship. Itwas hilariousto look back on allthe things we said. For certain messagesshewrote outwhatwas going onin her mind, anditwasamazing. Since I’ve done this to hundreds ofpeople,Iwill finallydo itto myself. Let’s look at my exchanges. To set the scene, I got hernumberat abarbecue in Brooklyn and we talked about getting ramen later thatweek. Okay, so the first messagewassentby meafter I called and sentthe textin lieuof a voicemail. My girlfriend didn’t call meback, though; she texted. In the book she gaveme, she revealsthat at thetime, she didn’t realizethat I’d asked herto call. After realizing her mistake, she freaked out and was worried thatby texting instead ofcallingshewould comeoff looking toonervous orscared. Note the day waiting period. I didn’t respondto her nextmessage untilthe next day at 10:13 A.M. I definitely intentionally waited so as not to come off as overeager. And I specifically remember running a draftby afriend and rewriting it several times beforesending it off. (The hokey pokeycookieisa referenceto acookie thather restaurant made, one thatshe knew I loved.) TodayIknow for a fact thatmy waiting didindeed cause someuneasiness. She told me that she feltI must havesomehow been offended by the “howfunnyareyou?” comment. But thesame night she was waiting, she got word thatI’dasked a friendof hers if she was infact single, so she knew all was well. Still, the waiting didhave an effect. Shetoldme thatshe was really excited when I wrote backthe next morning. Theearlymessages are interesting tolook back on, because they reveal so much about our mind-sets at the time. Both of us wereanxious about thetexts we were crafting,butwewere oblivious tothe factthat we werein the sameboat. As things progressed in the relationship (and in our messages),shetalkedabout how much it meant toher when I sent some early loving texts sayingthat I missed her orwasthinking about her. When I readthem, ittookme back through all the excitement and fun we’d had during thosetimes. Soalthoughthese new tools maycauseusall stress and angst in the earlyparts of arelationship, thesame technologyhasalso given us all a new place to store, remember, andshare our love for each other, andI’m glad we haveit. Don’t think of online dating as dating—think of it as an online introduction service. Online datinghas probably been the single biggest game changerin the hunt for your soul mate. Remember: Between 2005 and2012 one-third ofallthe couples who gotmarriedin theUnited Statesmet on the Internet. By the time thisbook is out, that number undoubtedly will be higherand somenew appor site will makeTinderor whateveriscurrently popular seem outdated. Manyonline daters we spokewithwere having success, but many were also frustrated and fedup with the scene altogether. However, most ofthe ones who were fedup seemedto be spending more time in front of their screens than infront of their dates inreal life. Online datingworks best asa forumwhereyou can meetpeoplewhom you’d never otherwise be able to meet. It’s theultimate way to expand thesearch beyond the neighborhood. Thekey is to getoff the screenand meetthese people. Don’tspend your nights in endlessexchangeswith strangers. Communicate with people you havesome chance ofliking, then, after a few messages—enough tofigure outif there’s something really, really wrongwith them—justaskthemout. After a certain point, if you’re stilltrading endless back-and-forth messages online, you’re justwasting time. Have faith inyour abilityto sizesomeone upin person. Theallure ofonline dating and its vast supplyof potential dates can make staying inand clicking through profiles inyour pajamas seem likeabetter optionthanheading out to a crowdedbar or restaurant,but let’snot forget another great source ofpotentialmates —the real world. Remember Arpan, the dude whowassoburnedout on online dating? We contacted himabouta year after the focus group to see whetherhewasstill meeting womenonline and taking them to thebowling alley (just for drinks, of course). We weredelightedto hearthat his wholelove life had taken a turn for thebetter. He hadmet someonespecial and been dating her for a few months, and he seemed genuinely happy, with way more energythan hehad shown thatsadSunday morningwithus. Arpan met his newlady in real life, but he creditedhis online datingexperiences with helpinghimmeetnew people. He explainedthatall thoseunansweredmessages had reduced his fear of rejectionand made him less apprehensive about approaching women. He methis girlfriend at a bar, after seeing herata distance and working up the courage tointroduce himself. “I walked towards hergroup, said hello toall of her friends, lookedthis girl straight in the eye andsaid, ‘I saw you from across theroomand I justhad to say hello.’” It was heartwarming to learnthat Arpan had turnedthings aroundsince we’d first met him,and it was fascinating to hearhimtrace his success in real-world romanceto the things he learnedwhiledating online. With so many romantic options, instead of trying to explore them all, make sure you properly invest in people and give them a fair chance before moving on to the next one. Wehavesomanyoptions and we’re horrible at analyzing them. Wego on boring dates andwe’re quick to moveon to thenext person. Stack the deckin your favor. Goon interesting dates. Follow the “monster truck rally” theory,and do things that are goingto help you experiencewhat it’s really liketo be with this person. Don’tjust stareat each other acrossthe table while sippinga beverage and makingthe same small talk you’vemadea thousand timesabout siblings, hometowns, andwhereyou wentto college. Also, havefaith in people. A person may seem justokay, but if you really invest timein the relationship, maybethey’ll be greater than you assume. Thinkabout it in terms of the music of rapper Flo Rida.*When you hear his latest song, at first you think, Goddamn it, Flo Rida. You’re just doing the same thing again, song after song. This song is nothing special at all. And by thetenthtimeyou hearit,you’re like, FLO!!! YOU’VE DONE IT AGAIN! THIS IS A HIT, BABY!!! In a sense we are alllike aFloRida song: The more time youspendwithus, the more you seehowspecial we are. Social scientists refer to this as the Flo Rida Theory of Acquired Likability Through Repetition. Theotherthing thathas stuck with meis how important it is to analyze options in the real world, not juston the screen. When I was finishingup thisbook,I gotcontacted bya woman who had been in theaudience ofa stand-up show I did in Michiganin September2013. During the show I was discussing texting andasked if anyonehad met someone recentlyand hadbeen in a back-and-forth. This woman, who was sitting inthe front, raisedher hand, and Iinvited herto comeup tothe frontof the stageand shareher experience. Shetoldme she’d met the guy about a weekearlier and had been messaging back and forth. Shehad met him through friends offriends at a bonfire. He lived in her apartment complex,and after meetingher, he left her a note on her door that said, “Dinner tomorrow?” andhis apartment number. Shewrote, “I’m busy,” on the noteand put it backon frontof hisdoor. He thenplacedthe note back on herdoor and wrote, “You’re busytonight?How about Monday, Wednesday, orFriday?” Shethen tookthe conversationto Facebook and sent him a messagethat said: He responded: “No worries. Family always comesfirst.” As always, you can tell so much bythese messages. Herextended listof excuses, including that really intense oneaboutthe dyinggrandma, didnotbode well for this would-be suitor. Iasked the audience toclap if they thought she actually liked this guy and would go out with him when things “settled down.” There was a smattering of claps. WhenI asked if people thought she didn’t likehimand they wouldnevergo out, there was massiveapplause. The audience knew thislady wasn’t ready togo outwith this guy. After hearing this, she said, “Well, I’ve seen him aroundsince andhe’s not terrible,” and thatshewould “maybe” gooutwith him. It was the lastIheardof this situation. Then in September 2014, ayear later,the womanwas able toget in contactwith me. Shesaid thatafterweread through themessages, she realized she shouldgive him asecond chance. They started dating, andnow, a yearlater, theywere getting married! It was pretty insaneto hear. Andin thecontext ofthis book I think it’s animportant story to remember. Withall our new tools forconnecting and communicating, there’s stillnothingmore useful than actually spending time with a person face-to-face. Often, whenyou’reout in thesingleworld meeting people, youmeet someone you like, gettheirnumber, and put itright in yourphone, transforming them into an “option” thatlives in your device. Sometimes you and thatoption engage insome phone-based interaction and you meetup in person. But sometimesthat exchange never happens. That potentiallycool, exciting person diesthere, buriedin your phone. WhenI was actively dating, there was awoman I’d metin abar. For whatever reason,ourtext conversation fizzled andwenevermetup after our initial meeting. We ranintoeachother at a mutualfriend’s party years laterand really hit it off. I felt dumb. Why hadn’tI ever followed upwiththis great person? After writing this book, I think Iknow why. It’s probably because I was busy chasing other options. I didn’t texther andlefther to diein myphone. For methe takeaway of these stories is that, no matter how many optionswe seem to have on our screens, we should becareful notto lose track of the human beings behindthem. We’re betteroff spending quality time getting to knowactual people than spending hours with our devices, seeing who elseis outthere. Okay, well,I’m fucking donewith my book!!! YEAH!!! Before we part, though, I wantto say onemore thing about our current romantic conundrums. Thesedays there are alotof people out there saying thatsocial media and allournew communicationstechnologies are making it impossible for people to reallyconnect with oneanother. There arean equalnumber of people saying thatournew media makesthings better than ever. By now I hope it’s clear that I don’tbuyeitherof these extremearguments. Cultureand technology havealways shaken romance. When the plow camein and madewomen’slabor valuein the family unit drop, itwas disruptive. When the car provided a meansfor people to traveland seepeoplewho lived farther away, thatwas disruptive too. Same with telegraphs,telephones, televisions, and whatever futureinventions may come. Who knows,maybe some womanis reading thisin the futureand wondering, Ummm. . . well at least dudes weren’t teleporting dicks to your house on a regular basis! This sounds great. Historyshows that we’ve continuallyadapted to these changes. No matter the obstacle,wekeep finding loveand romance. Nowthat I’vefinished this project,I have a much richer understandingof the new romanticlandscape. And the main thingI’ve learned fromall this researchis that we’re all init together. Ihope you feel this way too. I wishyou, andall the readers,the best of luckin modern romance. Andby bestof luck,I meanI hope thatone day you’ll meetsomeone amazing, textthema thoughtful message,take them to a monster truck rally, and then hopefully at some point, after abowl of deliciousramen,make love to them in a Jurassic Park– themed love hotel inTokyo. ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis book is technically “by Aziz Ansari,” but I cannot overstate what a groupeffort it has beenon many levels. Tobegin,Imustthank Mr. Eric Klinenberg. Ifyou are a renowned sociologist and best-sellingauthor, teamingup with a comedian to writea sociology/humor book aboutmodern romance is notnecessarily asafeor logical bet. But Eric has believed inthe projectand me since dayone. Over the past twoyears, we spentan insane amountof time working together,tryingto conceive and execute thisproject. Working so closely and intenselywithsomeone can be agrind sometimes, but with Eric itwas always fun and interesting. It also helped thatwhen itcame to food, Eric was a maximizer as well, never questioningour extendedlunchbreaksor grueling research tofind the best placeto eat at that moment. Eric,a million thanks,sir. Besides Eric, theother key to pulling off this book was our many interviews, which gaveusreal-world experiencesto draw and learn from. The bookwould simply nothave beenpossible without the hundreds of people all over theworld who participated inthese interviews andsograciously shared the most intimate parts oftheirlives. This also goes for everyone whotook part in our online subredditforum. I can’t thank all of youfolks enough. We dida huge amount of research for thisbook,and we couldn’t have doneit without the help ofourgreat collaborators and assistants. Matthew Wolfe, aka the Wolfe Man, has been a superstarresearchassistant and then some. Everything we threw at Wolfewastaken care of,no matter how weird. Whetherit was tracking down classified personalsfrom hundreds ofyears agoor finding someoneto Photoshop pictures of Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson, he was ontop of it. What’s more, he did it all with the utmost professionalismand good cheer, which made working on the book a lotmorefun and easy than itmight have been. WolfeMan,you killed it, and wethankyou. ShellyRonenoffered crucial assistancein the early stages ofthe project, helping us run focus groupsin New York City anddoing herown interviews aswell as fieldwork in Buenos Aires. Kumiko Endo gave us great support in Tokyo, recruiting people for focus groups and tutoringuson the city’s strange andfascinating romantic culture. Sonia Zmihi organized our focus groupsin Paris. Gracias, arigato, merci. Robb Willer, a sociologist at Stanford University and afellow native SouthCarolinian, consultedwithusthroughout the research process, helping us analyzesophisticated data setsand appreciate the value ofmonster truckralliesin dating. We benefited immensely fromthe contributionsof scholars anddating experts who generously shared their time and ideas: danahboyd, AndrewCherlin, Stephanie Coontz, LaurieDavis, Pamela Druckerman,Thomas Edwards,EliFinkel, Helen Fisher, JonathanHaidt, Sheena Iyengar,Dan Savage, NatashaSchüll, Barry Schwartz,Clay Shirky, and Sherry Turkle. Theseare all incrediblysmartpeopleand I feelluckyto havegotten to spendtimewiththemand steal someof theirwisdom. I also want to give a specialshout-out to a few people who wereextremely helpful with our data. ChristianRudder, a cofounderof OkCupid, and HelenFisher, an anthropologist and adviserto Match.com, offered us all kinds oforiginaldata from their datingsitesand surveys. VictoriaTaylor and Erik Martin at Reddithelpedusset up the ModernRomantics subreddit, which proved to be an invaluable research tool. Michael Rosenfeld, of StanfordUniversity, shared data from his amazingsurvey, “How Couples Meet and Stay Together,” andJonathan Haidt ofNew York University allowed us to reproduce and take some libertieswithhisgraphs. Geoff Mandelis responsible for theamazing Photoshop work inthe book and quickly addressed ridiculous e-mailsfromme thatsaid things like “Hey Geoff, can we make the raptorsin the Jurassic Park Honeymoon Suite 30% biggerand also put romantic candleson them?” Walter Green didthe excellent graphs andlayout. I must also givea huge thanks toWarren Fuand Crisanta Baker who helped with early concepts for the bookjacket. The final jacketartworkwas designed by Jay Shaw, with photographyby Ruvan Wijesooriya. The limited edition’s jacketwascrafted by Dawn Baille andher team at BLT. In New York City we got logisticalhelp from Jessica Coffey, SieraDissmore, VictorBautista, Sebastien Theroux, andMatthew Shawver. In Los Angeles, HonoraTalbotand Dan Torson keptusin gear. Also wantto shout-outthe Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre for helpingprovide venuesfor someof our largerfocus groups, and the University Settlementforhelping us arrangeinterviewswiththeir seniors. A smallgroupof friends and colleagues read early drafts of the manuscript, and their comments helped us sharpen thefinalversion. Thesefolks include:Aniz Ansari, Siera Dissmore, Enrique Iglesias,* Jack Moore, MattMurray, Kelefa Sanneh, Lizzie Widdicombe, AndrewWeinberg,Robb Willer, Harris Wittels, Jason Woliner,and Alan Yang. Our agentsand managers, RichardAbate, David Miner, and Dave Beckyat3Arts, Mike Berkowitz at APA (for Aziz), and TinaBennettatWilliam Morris(for Eric),were great advocates at every stage of the process. I also want to thank my publicist, Jodi Gottlieb,who, eventhough we technically haveno clue whatthe press will belike for this project asI typethis,I am so sure willwork tirelessly toget theword out. I also need to thank David Cho, who doesa lot of random shitverywell onall frontsdigital andisalways down toget deliciousKorean food with me. My lawyers, Jared Levine,CorinneFarley, and Ted Gerdes, who sent me awesome e-mails that said things like “Youabsolutely cannot say theold couple fromthe stockimagesite are ‘fuckingother people’ unless you makeit explicitly clear thatthey are not actually ‘fuckingother people.’” Scott Moyers, our editor at Penguin, has been incredible every step of the way. He got the conceptof this bookimmediately, alwayssupported it, and never tried to make it something itwasnot. In addition to Scott, weneed to thank Ann Godoff, Mally Anderson,Akif Saifi, Hilary Roberts, Jeannette Williams, and the rest of the team at Penguin Press,who always had ourbacks as well. Andfinally, our greatest thanks goto our ownpartners in modern romance. ToKate,whoendured herhusband’sunexpectedrun asa spokesman for American singles, Erichopes that this book has redeemed him. ToCourtney,if every person were lucky enoughto havea partner assupportive, loving, caring, talented, and beautiful asyou—I doubt there’dbe amarket for a book like this. ToEric,this is Aziz. I hope I don’tget you in trouble with your wife because Itotally destroyed you in the “who wrotea sweeternoteto their person” contest. NOTESChapter1: Searching forYourSoulMate 1.JamesH. S. Bossard, “Residential Propinquity asa Factor inMarriageSelection,” American Journal of Sociology 38,no. 2(1932): 219–24. 2.John S. Ellsworth Jr., “The Relationshipof Population Density toResidential Propinquityas aFactorin MarriageSelection,” American Sociological Review 13,no. 4 (1948):444–48. 3.WilliamM. Kephart, “Some Correlates ofRomantic Love,” Journal of Marriage and the Family 29, no. 3 (1967):470– 74. 4.StephanieCoontz, Marriage, a History: How Love Conquered Marriage (NewYork:Penguin, 2006),7. 5.Elizabeth Rice Allgeierand MichaelW. Wiederman, “Love andMateSelectioninthe 1990s,” Free Inquiry 11, no. 3 (1991):25–27. 6.Esther Perel, “TheSecretto DesireinaLong-Term Relationship,” TEDlecture, February2013. 7.CaseyE. Copen,Kimberly Daniels, JonathanVespa, and WilliamD. Mosher, “First Marriages in the United States: Data from the 2006–2010 National Survey of Family Growth,” National Health Statistics Reports 49 (2012). 8.Thesenumberscome from a reportonInternettrends by Mary Meeker ofthe venture capitalfirm Kleiner Perkins Caufield &Byers. Thereportis availablefrom thewebsite Quartz at http://qz.com/214307/marymeeker-2014-internet-trendsreport-all-the-slides/. Chapter2: TheInitial Ask 1.Theresultsof thesurvey, conductedbythe communicationscompany textPlus, areavailable at http://www.textplus.com/itsprom-party -time/. 2.Ibid. 3.Theaccountoftextingwetell here relies on ChrisGayomali, “TheTextMessageTurns20: A Brief Historyof SMS,” The Week, December3, 2012. 4.The2010dataare reportedin DavidGoldman, “Your Smartphone Will Run Your Life,” CNN.com, October19, 2010. The 2014 datacomefrom Pew ResearchCenter, “Device Ownership over Time,” Pew Research Internet Project, January2014, http://www.pewinternet.org/datatrend/mobile/cell-phone-andsmartphone-ownershipdemographics/. 5.Clive Thompson, “Clive ThompsonontheDeathofthe PhoneCall,” Wired,July 28, 2010. 6.George Homansestablishedthe classicsociological “principleof leastinterest,” which holdsthat thepersonwho is leastinterested inarelationship hasthemost power. SeeGeorge Caspar Homans, Social Behavior: Its Elementary Forms (NewYork: HarcourtBrace Jovanovich, 1961). 7.MikeJ. F. Robinson, Patrick Anselme, AdamM. Fischer,and KentC. Berridge, “Initial UncertaintyinPavlovian RewardPredictionPersistently Elevates IncentiveSalienceand ExtendsSign-Trackingto Normally UnattractiveCues,” Behavioral Brain Research 266 (2014):119–30. 8.Erin Whitchurch,Timothy Wilson, and Daniel Gilbert, “‘HeLoves Me,HeLoves Me Not ...’ UncertaintyCan IncreaseRomantic Attraction,” Psychological Science 22, no. 2 (2011):172–75. 9.Thesurvey, conductedby HunterPublicRelations, can be found at http://clientnewsfeed.hunterpr.com Spirits-News.aspx?page=25. Chapter3: Online Dating 1.ChristianRudder, Dataclysm:Who We Are (When We Think No One’s Looking) (NewYork:Crown,2014). 2.Nathan Ensmenger, “Computer Datinginthe 1960s,” The Computer Boys (blog), March 5, 2014. 3.H. G. Cocks, Classified: The Secret History of the Personal Column (London: Random House,2009). 4.This story is toldinJeff Kauflin, “HowMatch.com’sFounder Createdthe World’sBiggest DatingWebsite—andWalked AwaywithJust$50,000,” Business Insider, December16, 2011. 5.John T. Cacioppo, Stephanie Cacioppo,GianC. Gonzaga, Elizabeth L. Ogburn,andTyler J. VanderWeele, “Marital Satisfaction and Break-ups Differ Across On-lineand OfflineMeeting Venues,” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 110,no. 47 (2011):18814–19. 6.More ofthisdata is here: http://data.stanford.edu/hcmst. Thesurveyoversampled gays andlesbiansto makesure there weresufficientnumbers todraw meaningfulconclusions. 7.MichaelJ. Rosenfeld and Reuben J. Thomas, “Searching foraMate:The Riseofthe Internetas aSocial Intermediary,” American Sociological Review 77,no. 4 (2012):523–47. 8.Aaron SmithandMaeve Duggan, “Online Dating and Relationships,” Pew Research Center, October21,2013. 9.Rudder, Dataclysm,70. 10.Dan Slater, Love in the Time of Algorithms: What Technology Does to Meeting and Mating (NewYork:Current Books, 2013). 11.ChristianRudder, “The 4Big Mythsof Profile Pictures,” OkTrends (blog), January 20, 2010, http://blog.okcupid.com/index.ph 4-big-myths-of-profile-pictures/. 12.EliJ. Finkel,PaulW. Eastwick,Benjamin R. Karney, HarryT. Reis,andSusan Sprecher, “Online Dating:A Critical Analysis from the Perspective ofPsychological Science,” Psychological Science in the Public Interest 13, no. 1 (2012):3–66. 13.LauraStampler, “Inside Tinder: Meetthe GuysWho TurnedDatingintoan Addiction,” Time,February 6, 2014. 14.Ann Friedman, “HowTinder Solved Online Dating for Women,” New York,October10, 2013. 15.NickBilton, “Tinder, theFast-Growing Dating App, Tapsan Age-Old Truth,” New York Times, October29,2014. 16.Holly BaxterandPete Cashmore, “Tinder:The Shallowest Dating AppEver?” Guardian, November22, 2013. 17.VelvetGarvey, “9Rulesfor ExpatsinQatar,” Matador Network,July 28,2012. Chapter 4:Choice and Options 1.SheenaS. Iyengar,Rachael E. Wells, and Barry Schwartz, “DoingBetterbutFeeling Worse:Looking forthe ‘Best’ Job Undermines Satisfaction,” Psychological Science 17, no. 2 (2006):143–50. 2.SheenaS. Iyengar and MarkR. Lepper, “When Choice Is Demotivating:Can OneDesire TooMuchof aGoodThing?” Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 79,no. 6 (2000):995. 3.Onthe ageoffirst marriageby state, seePopulation Reference Bureau, “MedianAge atFirst Marriagefor Women (5-Year ACS),” http://www.prb.org/DataFinder/T ind=133. On therisingdivorce ratein smalltownsandrural areas,seeSabrinaTaverniseand RobertGebeloff, “Once Rarein Rural America, Divorce Is Changing theFaceof Its Families,” New York Times, March 23,2011. 4.DonaldG. DuttonandArthurP. Aron, “Some Evidencefor Heightened Sexual Attraction UnderConditionsofHigh Anxiety,” Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 30,no. 4 (1974):510. 5.Arthur Aron, Christina C. Norman, Elaine N. Aron,Colin McKenna, and Richard E. Heyman, “Couples’ Shared Participation inNoveland ArousingActivitiesand Experienced Relationship Quality,” Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 78,no. 2 (2000):273. 6.Paul W. Eastwick and LucyL. Hunt, “RelationalMateValue: ConsensusandUniqueness in Romantic Evaluations,” Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 106,no. 5(2014): 728–51. 7.Paul W. Eastwick and LucyL. Hunt, “So You’reNot Desirable,” New York Times, May 16,2014. Chapter 5: International Investigations ofLove 1.LindseyGalloway, “LivingIn: TheWorld’s BestCities for Dating,” BBC.com,June 16, 2014. 2.Abigail Haworth, “WhyHave Young People inJapanStopped HavingSex?” Guardian, October20, 2013. 3.National Instituteon Population andSocialSecurityResearch, “TheFourteenthJapanese National Fertility Survey,” 2010. 4.AnEnglish-languagesummary ofthesefindingscanbefound at “30% ofSingle JapaneseMen Have NeverDated aWoman,” Japan Crush (blog),April3, 2013. 5.RolandBuerk, “Japan SingletonsHit RecordHigh,” BBC.com,November 28,2011. 6.IfyoucanreadJapanese, see http://www.stat.go.jp/data/kokuse 7.“SurveyFinds Growing Number ofCouples TurnedOffby Sex,” Asahi Shimbun, December 21, 2012. 8.Central Intelligence Agency, “TheWorldFactbook,” 2014, availableat https://www.cia.gov/library/publi worldfactbook/rankorder/2054rank.htm 9.LindaSieg, “PopulationWoes Crowd Japan,” Japan Times, June 21,2014. 10.Arundownof theJapanese government’smarriage-support initiativescanbe found inKeiko UjikaneandKyoko Shimodo, “Abe Funds Japan’sLast-Chance Saloon toArrest Dropin Births,” Bloomberg,March19, 2014. 11.KalmanApplbaum, “Marriage with theProperStranger: Arranged Marriagein Metropolitan Japan,” Ethnology 34,no. 1(1995): 37–51. Also see DavidMillward, “Arranged MarriagesMakeComebackin Japan,” Telegraph,April16, 2012. 12.MasamiIto, “Marriage Ever-Changing Institution,” Japan Times, November3, 2009. 13.Alexandra Harney, “The Herbivore’sDilemma,” Slate, June 15,2009. 14.NationalInstituteon PopulationandSocial Security Research, “FourteenthJapanese National Fertility Survey,” October-November2011. 15.There’sa totally fascinating video from Vice on theJapanese loveindustry that’savailableat www.vice.com/the-vice-guideto-travel/the-japanese-loveindustry. 16.Ifyou’reinterestedinhostess clubs,there’sawhole anthropology book aboutthem. Anne Allison, Nightwork: Sexuality, Pleasure, and Corporate Masculinity in a Tokyo Hostess Club (Chicago: UniversityofChicagoPress, 1994). 17.Thedataonmen’suseof prostitutionisassembled in “PercentageofMen(by Country) WhoPaid forSexat LeastOnce:The JohnsChart,” ProCon.org, January 6, 2011. It canbe found at http://prostitution.procon.org/view resourceID=004119. 18.Themayor’s statementsandthe 60 percent figure canbe found inTaraBrady, “‘Women Who SayTheyDon’tLikeCat-Calls AreLying’: BuenosAires Mayor Sparks Furious Backlash,” Daily Mail, April29, 2014. Chapter6: Old Issues, NewFormats:Sexting, Cheating,Snooping,and BreakingUp 1.Thesestatisticscomefroma few sources:The dataonsending andreceiving sexts areinHanna Rosin, “Why Kids Sext,” Atlantic, November2014. The data oniPhoneusers versus Androidusers,onTuesdaymorningsexting,andon people inrelationships sextingcome fromtheMatch.com survey we drawonthroughout thebook. 2.JennaWortham, “Everybody Sexts,” Matter, November11, 2014. 3.Rosin, “Why Kids Sext.” 4.Oliver Tree, “‘StopStarinat My Weapon’:HilariousNew Details ofWeiner’sSordid Facebook ‘Affair’ with BlackjackDealer AreRevealed,” Daily Mail,June 8,2011, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news 2000386/Anthony-WeinerFacebook-affair-blackjackdealer-Lisa-Weissrevealed.html. 5.The2011figure is reportedin SheelahKolhatkar, “Cheating, Incorporated,” Bloomberg Businessweek,February 10, 2011. The 2014 figureison AshleyMadison’s website. See https://www.ashleymadison.com/ us/. 6.DeniKirkova, “You’reBreaking UpwithMe by TEXT?” Daily Mail,March5, 2014. 7.IlanaGershon, The Breakup 2.0: Disconnecting over New Media (Ithaca:Cornell University Press,2011). 8.RossalynWarren, “AGirlIs Getting overHer Ex by Photoshopping Photosof BeyoncéOverHisFace,” BuzzFeed, July29,2014. 9.Irene Tsapelas,Helen Fisher, andArthur Aron, “Infidelity: When, Where, Why,” in William R. CupachandBrianH. Spitzberg, The Dark Side of Close Relationships II (New York:Routledge, 2010),pp. 175–96. 10.RichardWike, “FrenchMore AcceptingofInfidelityThan PeopleinOtherCountries,” Pew Research Center,January14, 2014. 11.FrankNewportandIgor Himelfarb, “In U.S., RecordHighSayGay,Lesbian RelationsMorally OK,” Gallup.com,May20,2013. 12.Henry Samuel, “FrenchStudy Shows aMajorityof Menanda Third ofWomenCheat,” Telegraph, January 21,2014. Chapter7:Settling Down 1.HelenFisher, “How toMake Romance Last,” O, the Oprah Magazine,December2009. 2.Philip N. Cohen, “Marriage Is DecliningGlobally:Can You SayThat?” Family Inequality (blog), June12,2013. 3.ChristinaSterbenz, “Marriage RatesAreNear Their Lowest LevelsinHistory—Here’s Why,” Business Insider,May7, 2014. 4.AndrewJ. Cherlin, “Inthe Seasonof Marriage, aQuestion: WhyBother?” New York Times, April27, 2013. 5.Mark Oppenheimer, “Marriage, with Infidelities,” New York Times, June30, 2011. 6.Mimi Valdes, “DoOpen RelationshipsWork?” Men’s Fitness,October2007. BOOKSCONSULTEDBAILEY, BETH. From Front Porch to Back Seat: Courtship in Twentieth-Century America. Baltimore: JohnsHopkins UniversityPress,1988. BOYD, DANAH. It’s Complicated: The Social Lives of Networked Teens. New Haven,CT:Yale UniversityPress,2014. CHERLIN, ANDREW J. Marriage, Divorce, Remarriage. Cambridge, MA:Harvard UniversityPress,2009. ———. The Marriage-Go-Round: The State of Marriage and the Family in America Today.New York: Knopf, 2010. COCKS, H. G . Classified: The Secret History of the Personal Column.London: Random House,2009. COONTZ, STEPHANIE. Marriage, a History: How Love Conquered Marriage.NewYork:Penguin Books, 2006. DAVIS, LAURIE. Love at First Click: The Ultimate Guide to Online Dating.New York: Simon & Schuster,2013. DRUCKERMAN, PAMELA. Lust in Translation: The Rules of Infidelity from Tokyo to Tennessee.NewYork:Penguin Press,2007. DUNBAR, ROBIN. The Science of Love. Hoboken,NJ:Wiley, 2012. FISHER, HELEN. Anatomy of Love: A Natural History of Monogamy, Adultery, and Divorce.New York: Simon& Schuster, 1992. ———. Why Him? Why Her? Finding Real Love by Understanding Your Personality Type.NewYork: HenryHolt, 2009. HAIDT, JONATHAN. The Happiness Hypothesis: Finding Modern Truth in Ancient Wisdom. New York: Basic Books, 2006. ILLOUZ, EVA. Why Love Hurts: A Sociological Explanation. Malden,MA:PolityPress, 2012. IYENGAR, SHEENA. The Art of Choosing. New York: Twelve, 2010. JONES, DANIEL. Love Illuminated: Exploring Life’s Most Mystifying Subject (with the Help of 50,000 Strangers).New York: HarperCollins, 2014. KLINENBERG, ERIC. Going Solo: The Extraordinary Rise and Surprising Appeal of Living Alone. New York: Penguin Press,2012. LING, RICHARD SEYLER. New Tech, New Ties: How Mobile Communication Is Reshaping Social Cohesion. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 2008. NORTHRUP, CHRISANNA, PEPPER SCHWARTZ, AND JAMES WITTE. The Normal Bar: The Surprising Secrets of Happy Couples and What They Reveal About Creating a New Normal in Your Relationship.New York: Harmony, 2013. OYER, PAUL. Everything I Ever Needed to Know About Economics I Learned from Online Dating.Cambridge, MA: HarvardBusinessReview Press,2014. ROSENFELD, MICHAEL J. The Age of Independence: Interracial Unions, Same-Sex Unions, and the Changing American Family. Cambridge, MA:Harvard UniversityPress,2007. RUDDER, CHRISTIAN. Dataclysm: Who We Are (When We Think No One’s Looking). NewYork: Crown,2014. RYAN, CHRISTOPHER, AND CACILDA JETHÁ. Sex at Dawn: The Prehistoric Origins of Modern Sexuality. NewYork: HarperCollins, 2010. SCHWARTZ, BARRY. The Paradox of Choice. NewYork:Ecco,2004. SIMON, HERBERT A. Models of Man: Social and Rational. Oxford: Wiley,1957. SLATER, DAN. Love in the Time of Algorithms: What Technology Does to Meeting and Mating. NewYork:Current,2013. TURKLE, SHERRY. Alone Together: Why We Expect More from Technology and Less from Each Other. New York: Basic Books, 2012. WEBB, AMY. Data, a Love Story: How I Cracked the Online Dating Code to Meet My Match.NewYork:Dutton, 2013. INDEXNote: Thepage numbersinthisindex refer totheprintedversion ofthisbook. Tofindthecorrespondinglocationsin the textofthisdigitalversion,please use the “search” functiononyourereader. Note thatnotall termsmaybe searchable. Additionally,pagenumbers in italics refertoillustrationsand graphs. A Abe, Shinzo,155 adrenaline,215 adulthood: early,126–27 emerging,16–19,237 Alfredo (88-year-old), 13,14 algorithms, 79,96, 106–9,118 Allen,Woody,214 Alone Together (Turkle),41,42, 44, 195 alternative lifestyles, 26 Amelia,going outwith friends, 19 Anatomy of Love (Fisher), 215 Annie Hall (movie),214 Ansari,Aziz, 37 comedyclubappearances of, 5 searchfor thebest,124–26, 128–29 answeringmachines,60–61 Aron, Art,143–44 Arpanvs. Dinesh,91–95, 113,246 AshleyMadison website,191 askingsomeoneout,33–37 attractiveness percentile, 89, 97, 117–18 B beekeepersuit, 142 BlackBerry,38 Blendr,113 body language, 47 Bossard,James,14, 15 bozos,42–48,53 brain: algorithmof,107,118 declining skillsof,41 andpassionate vs. companionate love, 214–15 pleasurecenters of, 215 brainscans, 214,215 breakups,191–95 BuenosAires, 170–76 aggressiveculturein,150, 170– 72 casualsex in, 175–76 dating culturein, 176 flirtingin,175 histérico/histérica in,174–75 livingwith parentsin,175 lovehotelsin,175–76 Stop StreetHarassment movementin, 171 technologyin,173 Bullock,Sandra,144 Cacioppo, John,79, 80 Capilano River,Vancouver,143– 44 careers: andageof marriage, 17 women and,19, 24 cheating,184–91, 203–5 andeaseof access,188 endingthe affair,190 escalation in, 188 andsocialmedia, 187,195 Cherlin,Andrew, 21–22,24 The Marriage-Go-Round, 22, 221 choice, see options Christmas ornaments, 128–29, 130 classified ads, 72–76, 73 cliques, 135 cohabitation, 221 Cohen,Philip,220 commitment, 134,139, 218–19, 223–24,227 companionate love, 214–18 computerdating services, 71–72 algorithms of, 79 connectivity, 251 control, need for, 58 conversation: face-to-face, 47,107–9, 245 phonevs. real-world, 47–48 spontaneous, 41 Coontz, Stephanie,225, 233 Marriage, A History, 22–23, 224–25 cuddlingcafés, 166 D Dataclysm (Rudder),88–89, 93, 97, 101,105 dating: best firstdates,141–42 boring dates,140–43, 145–47 casual, 146 effects ofnon-boring dates,143– 45 gokon (Japan), 165–66 hangingout vs.,53–54 initialask, 33–37, 34, 42 machikon (Japan),165 mobileapps, 109–18, 110 online, see onlinedating past and present, 27–29 quantityofdates,145–47 strategiesfor,145–47 tiring process of, 94 Davis,Laurie, Love at First Click, 108 dealbreakers, 139–40 decoystories,86–87 Derek(OkCupiduser),88–91 digitaldevices, 29–32 digitalpapertrail,198–99 Dineshvs. Arpan,91–95, 113,246 discovery period, 136,139 divorcerate, 19, 134,221 don’task,don’t tell,227, 230,231 dopamine,214, 215 doubt,seeds of, 233 Druckerman, Pamela, Lust in Translation, 205 Dutch, Dusty,237n Dutton,Don,143–44 E earlyadulthood, 126–27 Eastwick, Paul,146 Ed and Anne(personalads),74–76 education,andageof marriage, 17 Ellsworth,John Jr.,16 emergingadulthood, 16–19,237 Emilio (BuenosAires),173 Endo, Kumiko,155, 156,157, 165 equal partnerships,29 Europe, marriageratesin,220, 220 exes,195–98 exhaustion,91,94, 211 exposure,fearof,182 extramaritalaffairs, by country, 206 F Facebook,111, 116,187–88, 195– 96 face-to-facemeetings,107–9, 245 andbodylanguage,47 breakingupvia,192–93 declinein, 195 Feminine Mystique, The (Friedan), 19 feminism, 19 Finkel, Eli, 106–7 firstimpressions,147 Fisher, Helen, 107–8,109, 117–18, 139–40,224–25 Anatomy of Love, 215 FloRida(rapper),247 4chanwebsite, 183 France, 205–8 foodin,207 infidelity in,206, 206,208–9, 239–40 initialconnectionsin,149–50 Friedan,Betty, The Feminine Mystique, 19 frustration, 26,245 G gender stereotypes, 23 generativity,223 Germany, infidelityin, 206–7, 206 Gershon, Ilana, 193 Gibson,Tyrese,226 Gilbert, Daniel,63 Going Solo (Klinenberg),221 “goodenough,” settling for,22, 126,128,238 Greg(inWichita),138 Grindr,112–13, 113 H Haidt,Jonathan, 222,223 The Happiness Hypothesis, 216, 218,219 hanging outvs. dating,53–54 happiness,20–22, 25,127 Happiness Hypothesis, The (Haidt), 216,218, 219 Harding, Warren G.,178 Heather(limitedoptions), 136 hedonism, 222 Hillebrand,Friedhelm, 37 Hinge, 116 honesty,66,232 “HowCouplesMeet and Stay Together” survey,8 Hunt,Lucy,146 Indecent Proposal,204 independence,18, 24 IndustrialRevolution, 23 infidelity,184–91,206, 208–9, 239–40 initial ask,33–37, 34,42 follow-up, 56–57 Instagram,121, 190 interactions,41 interest: indicating, 64 indicatinglackof,66–67 Internet research,64–66,125–26, 128 introduction services, 108 Iyengar,Sheena,107, 132 J James(inWichita),138 Japan: birthratein,154 economicdecline in, 160,161 educationin,161 gokon dating in, 165–66 government-fundeddating servicesin, 155,165–66 host clubsin,167 hostess clubsin,166–67 online datingin,163–64 prostitutionasillegal in, 167, 168–69 relationshipreplacement in, 166–67 rice cookers in, 163–64, 164 see also Tokyo Jimmy(in Monroe),137–38, 147 jobsearch, 129–30, 132 Johnson,Dwayne “TheRock,” 197, 197 Jones,James Earl, 2, 2 Jose(75-year-old),14 Jurassic Park hotel (Tokyo),152, 152 K Klinenberg, Eric: Going Solo, 221 andresearchproject,7 Koji(Tokyo bartender),161–62 Kremen, Gary, 78 life partner, 222–23 lifestyles, alternative,26 long-distancerelationships,229 Los Angeles: average age ofmarriagein,134 online datingin,138 options availablein, 137 love: changing expectationsabout, 23–24 fallingin,21,222 intensity of,219, 219, 220,221, 222, 224 marrying for,26, 29 passionate vs. companionate, 214–18, 216, 219–20, 223, 232 wantingmore than,239 Love at First Click (Davis),108 Love in the Time of Algorithms (Slater),96 Lust in Translation (Druckerman), 205 M Macri, Mauricio, 171 Margaret(on Tinder),137 marriage: andalternativelifestyles,26 arranged,123–24, 139,156 average age of, 16–17, 17, 126, 134,221 andbondbetweenfamilies,22– 23 changing attitudesabout,156 commitment in, 139,218–19 companionatevs. soul mate, 20– 22, 25 declining ratesof,220–21, 220 anddivorce, 19,134,221 aseconomic institution,25 andfamily, 22,24,25, 26 financialsecurity in, 221 geographicdistribution of, 15 “good enough,” 22,126,238 for love, 26,29 need for,218–23,238 andonline dating, 245 open,227–28 other priorities intervening, 17 patternsofmatesearches,13– 16, 15 searchfor soulmateand, 20–22, 25 societalpressuretoward, 22,25, 135 asstatus symbol, 221 troublein,25 unmarried state,stigmaof,135 andwomen,18–19,22,238 Marriage, A History (Coontz), 22– 23, 224–25 Marriage-Go-Round, The (Cherlin),22, 221 Martin’sPotato Rolls, 127 Match.com, 8, 70,78–79, 96 Mateen,Justin, 111–12 matepoaching, 204 “matevalue,” 146–47 maturity, 223 maximizers,128–30 men: bozos, 42–48, 53 andGrindr, 112–13, 113 asheadsofhousehold,22 herbivore(Tokyo), 157–61 intimidated bystrong women, 162–63 livingwith their mothers, 160, 161 in onlinedating,88–90, 91 shyandpassive(Tokyo),157, 159,166 stud mentality, 90 uninhibited(Buenos Aires), 172 messagingstrategy,105–6 Miguel(inWichita), 135 misery,131 Mitterrand,François,208 mobile datingapps, 109–18, 110 monogamish, useofterm,228–29, 233 monogamy,224–34 Monroe,NewYork,133, 134–38 monster truckrallies,140, 140 N narration, 222,223 neurotransmitters, 214 NewYorkCity: average age ofmarriagein,134 online datingin,138 options availablein, 131 NickandChelsea(friends), 30–31 Nicole and Aaron(texting), 50–51 Nokia, 38 O OkCupid,8,71, 88–90,93–94,97, 108,116 oldergenerations: interviews of, 12–16, 18,20,27 invitations byphone orinperson to,36 limited options of, 133 andonline dating, 84 opensexualrelationsin, 227–28, 228 andtechnology, 242 onlinedating,69–70 algorithms,106–9 attractivenesspercentile, 89, 97, 117–18 changes introducedby, 18,240– 42 checklist,97 asintroduction service,245–46 investingtimeandeffortin,147 in Japan,163–64 knowledgeandskills neededfor, 96–97 andmarriage,245 messaging strategy, 105–6 not knowingwhatyouwant,96– 97 options in,26, 245–46 parameters of, 97 problems with, 88–91,94 profileinformation,106–7 profilephotos,97–105 riseof, 71–79, 78 self-promotion in, 163 social stigmawith, 86–87,137 superficiality in,117–18 swipingapps, 109–10,116–18 andthinmarkets,84–85 today, 79–84 user ratings in, 89 onlineresearch, beforefirst date, 64–66 open relationships,227–28, 229– 33 options: alternativechoices, 132–33 anddecision making, 131,132, 246–48 evaluating,138, 139–40 expanding poolof,17–18 exploring,145, 233,249 goingoverboardwith,129 for initial ask,34, 34 investingtimein,137–38 limited,133–39 in relationships, 130–32 researchon, 107,130 andsettling down, 213 too many,28,31–32,94,127– 29, 131,132, 190–91, 213, 239 P Paltrow,Gwyneth, 136 Papworth, Neil,37 Paradox of Choice, The (Schwartz),127–32,233 paranoia,200–201,233 Paris, see France partnerships,equal, 29 passion, 214–18, 219–20,223, 232 passwords, sharing, 201 Perel, Esther,25 perfection, questfor,25, 131 phones,29–32,34–36 answering machines, 60–61 breakingupa relationshipvia, 191–95 dating via, 42 impressionsgottenvia,47, 48 peak usageof, 40 andprivacy, 177,178, 189 real world vs.,47–48,177, 241 safezones, 190 smartphones,31–32,38,128, 178,179,240–42 andsnooping, 198–203, 239 andtextmessages, 37–42 andvoicemailmessages, 40 phoneselfvs. real-world self, 47– 48, 177,241 Photoshop,196–97 Pingeot, Anne,208 Pingeot, Mazarine,207 Pitbull, 234, 234, 240 placeholders,231 playinghardtoget,58–59 Precious, 238 pretend to be busy,66,67 privacy,118–22, 177,178, 187, 189,191 profile photos, 97–105, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105 promiscuity,234 Q Qatar: dating in, 118–22 parental supervisionin, 119–20 technologyin,121–22 women inburkas in, 121 R RachelandWill(texting),42–44 Rad, Sean, 111 reciprocity principle,63 Reddit: subredditforum,7, 20, 53,54, 55, 56,65, 91, 115,141, 180– 81, 187,190, 193,229–30 Reeve,Keanu, 144 rejection,66–67,161, 256 relationshipreplacementindustry (Japan), 166–67 relationships: breakingupviaphone,191–95 cheatingin, see cheating cohabitation,221 committed, 223–24 equalpartnerships, 29 lifepartner,222–23 long-distance,229 andlove, see love marriage, see marriage open,227–28, 229–33 paradox ofchoicein,130–32 puttingtimeandeffortinto, 138, 139,147,218, 246–48 researchon, 144 same-sex, 84–85, 85 settling down,211,212 sustained interactions,146 research: anonymity in, 7 onchoice, 107,130 delimitationsof,9 designof,7 focusgroups and interviewsin, 7, 27–29,157 Internet,64–66, 125–26 online,beforefirstdate, 64–66 onsex and attraction,215 surveysofcouples, 8,144 retirementcommunity: interviews conductedin,12–16, 18, 20,27 see also older generations romance: effects oftechnologyon,6 expanding poolof options for, 17–18 “fantasy” personas objectof, 131 peaking,220 Rosenfeld, Michael, 80,84,85, 88 Rosin,Hanna, 184 Rudder, Christian, Dataclysm, 88– 89, 93,97, 101,105 Ryan(inLosAngeles),137 S safety, concerns about,108 safezones,190 same-sexrelationships, 84–85, 85 satisfaction, 222 satisficers, 128,129–30 Sato,Masanobu, 168 Savage, Dan,225–26, 227–29, 232–33,240 scarcityprinciple, 64 Schüll, Natasha, 60–61 Schwartz, Barry, The Paradox of Choice, 127–32,233 screens,29–32, 34 search forsoulmate,11–12, 15, 26–29,236–37,238 algorithms,106–9,118 brain in, 107 changing processof,6, 12, 24, 79–84, 80, 81, 82, 83, 85,91 emotionalinvestmentin,25 investingtimein,137–38 andmarriage,20–22 in neighborhood,13–16, 15,81, 82, 118,236 not knowingwhatyouwant,96– 97, 236 andonline dating, see online dating byphone, 29–32 in realworld, 246 in sameapartmentcomplex, 13 in samebuilding, 14 seekingthe best, 126–31 stressful process of, 29 second-guessing,67 self-promotion, 163 settlingdown,209–34 andcompanionatelove,214–18 fearofsettling,213–14 asfrightening prospectto the author, 212,235 sex andattraction, studies of, 215 sex robots (Tokyo),166 sex shopsandtoys(Japan), 168 sexting, 178–84 betrayal oftrustin, 182–84 easier forsome,181, 182 generationgapinattitudes toward,184 privacyanddistancein, 180–82 reasonsfor,180 sexualnovelty, urgesfor,227, 230, 232 ShortMessageService(SMS) [texting], 37–39 silence, 66 Simon, Herbert,127–28 single life,221 Slater, Dan, Love in the Time of Algorithms, 96 smartphones, 31–32,38, 128,178, 179,240–42 Snapchat, 121–22 snooping,198–203,239 Soapland(Tokyo), 167–68 socialanxiety,41 socialgroups,meeting through, 94–95 socialmedia,31,79 breakingupvia,192, 193 andcheating, 187,195 andconnectivity,251 digital paper trailon, 198–99 andother options, 190–91 andsnooping, 198–203 “unfriending” on,195 socialstigma,86–87,135, 137 Socrates,58–59 “Some Evidencefor Heightened SexualAttraction Under Conditionsof High Anxiety,” 143–44 Sotomayor,Sonia,198, 198 soulmate: changing criteriafor,20,23, 25 deep connection with, 20–21 fallinginlovewith,21 marriage,20–22, 25 searchfor, see searchforsoul mate trulyspecial,21 stalkers,69 Statham, Jason, 196, 196 Stevie(69-year-old),14 StopStreet Harassment,171 Straight WhiteBoysTexting, 44– 45, 49,117 stress,25, 29 studmentality,90 subredditforum, 7,20,53, 54,55, 56, 65,91, 115,141, 180–81, 187,190,193, 229–30 SushishoMasa, Japan,169 swiping apps,109–10, 116–18 T Tanya(not realname),1–6, 67–68, 235 technology: changes in, 6, 18,128, 239–40 andconnectivity,251 anddigital paper trail,198–99 hoursinfrontof screens,29–30 negativeattitude about,242–45 andprivacy, 118–22 TengaCorporation, Japan,168 text messages,35,36, 37–39 after theinitialask, 56–57 beforemeetingoff-line, 108 breakingupvia,192, 193 content unimportant in, 42 doubling response time,58 endless back-and-forth,52–53, 245 endless banter in,50–52 firminvitationto specificevent, 54–55 generic “hey,” 48–49 humor in, 56 messaging strategy, 105–6 phonesvs.,37–42 playing games with, 241–42 real person asrecipientof,240 referenceto previouscall,55 separation in, 44 sexting,178–84 andsnooping, 199–203 spelling, punctuation,grammar errors in, 47,53 waitingforresponse, 58–64 thin markets, 84–85 Thombre,Amarnath,96 Tinder,109–18 attitudestoward, 114,137 conceptionof,111–12 focus-groupquotes about,114– 16 gamelike aspectof, 114,117–18 mutual-interestrequirement,113 